---
title: "1.8"
space: "Release Notes"
parent: "1"
---

## 1.8.5

**Release date: February 24th, 2017**

## Compatibiliy to Mendix 7
ATS now supports testing the recently released Mendix 7.

## Improvements
* Improved the performance of the project dashboard. Loading time should now be much faster.
* Removed the log depth setting for schedules to avoid log flooding. The setting is still available for manual test runs.

## Fixes
* The error logs now show correct timestamps with "UTC" suffix.
* Fixed two scenarios, where the results of data-driven test cases were not counted correctly on the dashboard and in the report.
* Fixed a bug on the project dashboard where the "Show log" button would not show the correct execution log for a data-driven test case.
* Fixed a bug on the project dashboard where the "Show log" button would not show the execution log for  test suites.
* Fixed the PDF report generation on the project dashboard which crashed in case the descriptions in test cases/suites were too long.
* Fixed the bug in the repository where it wasn't possible to add multiple items one after another because the "add item" function would work once.
* Added a validation for test cases to prevent empty names.
* Added a validation to schedules so that you can't save a schedule without selecting your Selenium server.
* Removed the naming restriction on projects so that projects in different tenants can have the same name.

## 1.8.4

**Release date: February 1st, 2017**

### New Action
* Added a new action to click a x-y-coordinate within the browser window or a certain UI element. Visit the [Reference guide](/ATS/refguide-ats-1/click-coordinates) for more details.

### Improvements
* Improved the sorting of scheduler items. The items are now shown in order of next execution time. The top item is the one that is executed next.
* Added a new warning icon on the Monitoring/Results page that indicates a failure in the tear down procedure of a test.

### Fixes
* Fixed a bug where the dialog to link a story to a test case was not closed properly.
* If you configured a data set with more than 30 fields for your test case, only the first 30 fields could be used due to a UI bug. This has been fixed.
* A change of the project name now also updates the root folder in the repository.
* Fixed a bug, where users were able to select selenium configurations and applications from other projects in the test run configuration.
* Fixed a bug, where the chart on the project selection page did not show the same results as the chart on the project dashboard.     
* The "Show Log" link on the project dashboard is now hidden for tests that have never been executed.
* Fixed a bug, where test cases were added in the wrong order to an empty test suite. 

## 1.8.3

**Release date: December 19th, 2016**

### Improvements

* Added a function for the System Administrator role to delete old execution logs from the database.

## 1.8.2

**Release date: December 13th, 2016**

### Fixes

* Fixed a bug where a data-driven test case within a test suite was not executed and prevented the test suite from finishing.

## 1.8.1

**Release date: November 7th, 2016**

### Fixes

* Fixed the bug where the **View Project** button on the dashboard returned an error message.

## 1.8.0

**Release date: November 6th, 2016**

### Supporting AppStore Widgets

Everybody uses widgets from the Mendix App Store in their applications. And of course you want them to be tested like all other parts of your application. Now they can be tested.

We've selected the top widgets from the App Store and added support for testing with ATS.

These are the new widgets now supported by ATS:
* [Dropdown Div Converter](https://appstore.home.mendix.com/link/app/2089/Mendix/DropdownDivConverter)
* [OnChange Inputbox/Textarea](https://appstore.home.mendix.com/link/app/89/Mendix/OnChange-Inputbox)
* [Boolean Slider](https://appstore.home.mendix.com/link/app/1798/Mendix/Boolean-Slider)
* [Simple Checkbox Set Selector](https://appstore.home.mendix.com/link/app/2349/Mendix/Simple-Checkbox-Set-Selector)
* [Checkbox Set Selector](https://appstore.home.mendix.com/link/app/121/Mendix/Checkbox-set-selector-(Table))
* [Grid Selector](https://appstore.home.mendix.com/link/app/266/Mendix/Grid-Selector)
* [Input Reference Selector](https://appstore.home.mendix.com/link/app/99/Mendix/Input-Reference-Selector) (not supported in recording yet)
* [CKEditor](https://appstore.home.mendix.com/link/app/1715/Mendix/CKEditor-For-Mendix) (not supported in recording yet)
* [Bootstrap Wysiwyg Editor](https://appstore.home.mendix.com/link/app/902/Mendix/Bootstrap-Wysiwyg-Editor) (not supported in recording yet)

The [Action Reference Guide](/ATS/refguide-ats-1/standard-actions-reference) lists the new actions.

### Action Reference Guide and Tutorial

If you use a widget that is not supported by ATS, you can help yourself and create your own actions. To help you with this, we now provide a [Tutorial](/ATS/howtos/create-custom-action) that explains how to create an action based on the example of the Boolean Slider widget.

We've also documented all our actions in a [Reference Guide](/ATS/refguide-ats-1/standard-actions-reference). It describes all the actions that you can use in your test cases. In addition to that, it also references the internal actions that are very helpful if you want to create your own actions.

### Improved Recording

We've improved the recording functionality to get rid of some unwanted recordings. Previously the recorder would also record a test step when you clicked elements like a table or a dataview. With this release, this does not happen anymore.

### Known Issue

Unfortunately recording for the Input Reference Selector, CKEditor, and Bootstrap Wysiwyg Editor is not possible yet. However, the widgets can still be tested by manually inserting the actions into your test case.
