---
title: "Mendix Private Platform Version 1.12 Release Notes"
linktitle: "1.12"
url: /releasenotes/private-platform/1-12/
description: "Release notes for version 1.12 of Private Mendix Platform"
weight: 30
---

These release notes cover changes made to the [Private Mendix Platform](/private-mendix-platform/) in version 1.12.

{{% alert color="info" %}}
This is the [MTS](/releasenotes/studio-pro/lts-mts/#mts) version release. The MTS version is supported until the LTS for this major version is released.
{{% /alert %}}

## 1.12.0

### Release date: August 8, 2024

Version 1.12.0 of Private Mendix Platform introduces a number of bug fixes, new features, and engineering improvements.

#### New Features

##### MDA Download through an API Endpoint

You can now download your *.mda* app packages by using a new endpoint in the Project API. You can also use the API to obtain a list of available packages for a specific project. For more information, see [Private Mendix Platform Project API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/private-platform-project-api/).

#### Improvements

##### Pipeline Enhancements

For the Build and Deploy pipeline, some steps can now automatically time out after a preset time interval. You can number of hours after which the step will time out for the Manual Approve and Waiting for Rest Call steps. For Manual Approve steps, notification messages are sent to the project owners and project members who have manual approval permissions.

##### Webhook Enhancements

Webhooks are now automatically classified by type depending on where they are placed in the pipeline. Unused webhook registrations are also automatically removed.

#### Engineering Improvements

* Private Mendix Platform now supports Java versions 11, 17, and 21.
* We have upgraded the Mendix Operator version to 2.18.1.
* We have upgraded the svix version to 1.25.
* We have upgraded the PCLM version to 0.7.1.

##### Studio Pro Updates

* Studio Pro 9.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [9.24.24](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.24/#92424)
* Studio Pro 10.6 MTS latest patch version updated to [10.6.11](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.6/#10611) 

#### Fixes

We have provided the following fixes:

* (Marketplace) We have resolved an issue where the system admin could not disable the Marketplace content import.
* (Marketplace) Fixed an issue with Marketplace Bundles not able to upload and import into Private Mendix Platform
* (Platform) We have resolved an issue where the company admin could not access the **Platform Statistics** page.
* (Platform) We have resolved an issue where users could still see the logs and metrics after their access had been revoked.
* (Platform) We have fixed a vulnerability.
* (UI) We have fixed a number of UI-related issues.

#### Known Issues

##### Incompatibility with Studio Pro 10.12 MTS

Studio Pro 10.12 MTS is not available yet with this release.

###### Cause

Incompatibility issues.

###### Solution

This issue will be addressed in a future release.

##### Build OCI Image Fails after Platform Update to Version 1.12.0

After upgrading the Private Mendix Platform to version 1.12.0, the build OCI image fails.

###### Cause

The default value of the Runtime Base Image has been changed in the new version but your instance still uses the previous value.

###### Solution

In **Setting** > **Build** > **Build Images Setting**, set the value of **Runtime Base Image** to `private-cloud.registry.mendix.com/app-building-blocks`.
