---
title: "1.13"
linktitle: "1.13"
url: /releasenotes/private-platform/1-13/
description: "Release notes for version 1.13 of Private Mendix Platform"
weight: 20
---

These release notes cover changes made to the [Private Mendix Platform](/private-mendix-platform/) in version 1.13.

{{% alert color="info" %}}
This is the [MTS](/releasenotes/studio-pro/lts-mts/#mts) version release. The MTS version is supported until the LTS for this major version is released.
{{% /alert %}}

## 1.13.2

### Release date: September 18, 2024 

Version 1.13.2 of Private Mendix Platform is a patch release which adds support for using custom self-signed root-CA certificates to encrypt the connection between the Private Cloud License Manager and the Mendix Operator.

#### Improvements

We have fixed an issue where the Mendix Operator did not trust the TLS connection to the Private Cloud License Manager (PCLM) when it was encrypted using custom self-signed root-CA certificates, which were configured in PCLM.

This release also provides numerous other improvements to the Mendix Operator, such as setting the log levels in the Operator deployment, enabling customers to tailor log visibility, resolving an application scaling issue when PCLM was configured without licenses, and generating the log format in JSON. For more information, refer to the [Operator release notes](/releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-for-private-cloud/#2.19.0).

#### Updates

###### Studio Pro Updates

* Studio Pro 9.24.26 LTS (production-grade support)
* Studio Pro 10.6.12 MTS (innovation-track only, limited support)

###### Other Platform Components

* We have upgraded the Mendix for Private Cloud Operator version to 2.19.0
* We have upgraded the Private Cloud License Manager version to 0.9.0

#### Fixes

* We have fixed an issue where the Build or Deploy Steps (pipeline template) editor would not persist changes such as editing or deletion to the last webhook step in the pipeline. 
* We have fixed an issue where the drop-down list in the **Share with groups** window did not work correctly.
* We have fixed an issue where the Build or Deploy Steps (pipeline template) editor would not correctly save customizations to the webhook payload upon closing the **Edit** window. 
* We have fixed an issue where the Build package for Mendix 10.6.9 apps would fail due to missing permissions.
* We have fixed a [known issue](/releasenotes/private-platform/1-13/#issue131a) with removing a user from the repository when the user leaves an app project that occurred with Bitbucket as the version control host.
* We have fixed a [known issue](/releasenotes/private-platform/1-13/#issue131b) where unexpected validation errors would occur when a new user group was created for which the assigned group admin was also a member of another group.
* We have fixed a [known issue](/releasenotes/private-platform/1-13/#issue131c) where a 409 error would appear when an app project was transferred to another owner, and the previous owner left.
* We have fixed a [known issue](/releasenotes/private-platform/1-13/#issue131d) that would occur when company admins attempted to transfer the app project ownership from one user to another.
* We have fixed a [known issue](/releasenotes/private-platform/1-13/#issue131e) where a repository URL error would occur when an app project was renamed.

## 1.13.1

### Release date: September 6, 2024

Version 1.13.1 of Private Mendix Platform is a patch release addressing several improvements and bug fixes.

#### Improvements

* We have fixed an issue where user-created Personal Access Tokens (PATs) would be deleted upon user logout.

#### Updates

###### Studio Pro Updates

* Studio Pro 9.24.26 LTS (production-grade support)
* Studio Pro 10.6.12 MTS (innovation-track only, limited support)

###### Other Platform Components

* We have upgraded the Mendix for Private Cloud Operator version to 2.18.1

#### Known Issues

##### Issue with Removing User with Bitbucket as Host {#issue131a}

With Bitbucket as version control host, there are issues with removing a user from the repository when the user leaves an app project.

###### Cause

The integration with Bitbucket which fails to remove the corresponding Bitbucket user from the repository when the user leaves the Mendix app project.

###### Solution

The user must be removed from the app project by the company admin.

##### Validation Error during User Group Creation {#issue131b}

Unexpected validation error occurs when a new user group is created for which the assigned group admin is also a member of another group.

###### Cause

This issue is caused by a bug in the group management logic.

###### Solution

The company admin must perform the following steps:

1. Create a new group.
2. Save immediately.
3. Assign the group admin on the **Group Detail** page.

##### 409 Error when App Ownership Is Transferred by Users {#issue131c}

A 409 error appears when an app project is transferred to another owner, and the previous owner leaves.

###### Cause

This issue is caused by a bug in the app ownership logic.

###### Solution

After transferring ownership, the previous owner must not leave. Instead, they must be removed by the new owner.

##### Conflicting Data Issue when App Ownership Is Transferred by Admin {#issue131d}

A conflicting data issue appears when company admins attempt to transfer the app project ownership from one user to another. While the ownership status is updated, the project roles for the respective users remain the same as before the transfer.

###### Cause

This issue is caused by a bug in the ownership transfer logic.

###### Solution

After transferring the app project between users, the company admin must set their respective project roles manually.

##### Issue with Renaming App Projects {#issue131e}

A repository URL error occurs when an app project is renamed.

###### Cause

A bug in the app renaming logic causes the repository URL to be set to empty after the app name is updated. Because of that, users may not be able to use the app correctly with Studio Pro.

###### Solution

This bug will be fixed in a future release. We recommend that you do not rename your app projects until this issue is resolved.

## 1.13.0

### Release date: August 30, 2024

Version 1.13.0 of Private Mendix Platform introduces a number of bug fixes and improvements.

#### Improvements

###### Build and Deploy Enhancements

The Build and Deploy process can now be triggered by using an API call. 

Dynamic role management is available for Build and Deploy on Kubernetes. Role management is now granular - instead of one permission list for all purposes, each member now has separate roles for each DTAP purpose, and can be granted different roles or permissions for each different purpose.

###### Webhook Enhancements

You can now customize the payload for webhooks. You can input both static text and variables.

##### Engineering Improvements

* Azure Blob is supported for Kubernetes build output.
* Logs are now generated when the Deployment pipeline is triggered.

###### Studio Pro Updates

* Studio Pro 9.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [9.24.26](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.24/#92426)
* Studio Pro 10.6 MTS latest patch version updated to [10.6.12](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.6/#10612) 

#### Fixes

We have provided the following fixes:

* (Platform) We have added email validation for the New User form.
* (Platform) We have fixed some issues related to the Build pipeline.
* (Platform) We have resolved a merge error that occurred for CI/CD pipelines with a decision tree.
* (Platform) For governance reasons, we have restricted the ability to edit user names, so that the option is no longer available to non-admin users.
* (UI) We have fixed some UI-related issues.

#### Known Issues

##### Cluster Manager Members Removed After Upgrade

After upgrading Private Mendix Platform to ver. 1.13, any members previously defined in the Cluster Manager settings are removed.

###### Cause

Because of the implementation of dynamic role management, previously created members are incompatible with the new options and must be recreated. In previous releases of Private Mendix Platform, there was only one global role for all DTAP purposes, so all members were created with one permission list for all purposes. Starting in ver. 1.13, there are three role options (*Cluster Member*, *Cluster Admin* and *Custom*) for each of the four deployment purposes (DTAP), which correspond to the specified purpose of the deployment environment. Because of that, member roles could not be mapped or inherited between the releases.

###### Solution

After the upgrade, manually add the members that were removed from each namespace in the Cluster Manager settings.
