---
title: "1.14"
linktitle: "1.14"
mts: true
url: /releasenotes/private-platform/1-14/
description: "Release notes for version 1.14 of Private Mendix Platform"
weight: 10
---

These release notes cover changes made to the [Private Mendix Platform](/private-mendix-platform/) in version 1.14.

## 1.14.0

### Release date: September 30, 2024

Version 1.14.0 of Private Mendix Platform introduces a number of bug fixes and improvements.

#### New Features

##### Automatic SBOM Generation for the Built-in Pipeline

For customers using the built-in Kubernetes-based build pipeline provided by the Platform, an SBOM with metadata is now automatically generated when building your app deployment artifact. You can download the SBOM for governance purposes.

#### Improvements

###### Authenticated Downloading of Deployment Artifacts

After your application has been built into an MDA (deployment package), you can now secure the downloading of the MDA package for deployment purposes with authentication. This avoids allowing anonymous access to the storage bucket of deployment packages, providing a more secure process.

##### Webhook Improvements

###### Installer No Longer Requires Redis for Webhooks

Private Mendix Platform has a built-in webhooks capability. In previous releases, this capability required provisioning a Redis database to install the webhooks server component, Svix. With this change, Redis is no longer a hard requirement, and the installer will treat it as an optional configuration. 

This means new platform deployments can forego Redis for webhooks, though it remains recommended for using our webhooks server (Svix) with high-traffic platforms that have a high volume and frequency of webhook calls configured. For more information, see [Private Mendix Platform Quick Start Guide: Prerequisites](/private-mendix-platform/quickstart/#prerequisites).

#### Updates

##### Studio Pro Updates

* Studio Pro 9.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [9.24.27](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.24/#92427) (production support)
* Studio Pro 10.6 MTS latest patch version updated to [10.6.14](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.6/#10614) (innovation track, limited support)

##### Other Platform Components

* Mendix for Private Cloud Operator version updated to [2.19.0](releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-for-private-cloud/#september-13th-2024)
* Private Cloud License Manager (PCLM) version updated to [0.9.0](/releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-for-private-cloud/#september-13th-2024)
* SVIX webhooks service version updated to 1.25.0
* Prometheus compatibility updated to 2.34.0
* Grafana compatibility updated to 10.3.3

#### Fixes

We have provided the following fixes:

* (Platform) We have fixed an issue where the build would fail when creating a deployment package on Mendix Studio Pro version 10.6.1.
* (Platform) We have resolved an issue that occurred when sending out multiple events from a deploy pipeline with a webhook step.
* (Platform) We have fixed an issue where webhook configuration was not cleared from the Svix server after a webhook was removed from a pipeline template.
* (UI) We have fixed some UI-related issues.
