---
title: "Mendix Private Platform Version 1.7 Release Notes"
linktitle: "1.7"
url: /releasenotes/private-platform/1-7/
description: "Release notes for version 1.7 of Private Mendix Platform"
weight: 80
---

These release notes cover changes made to the [Private Mendix Platform](/private-mendix-platform/) in version 1.7.

## 1.7.1

### Release date: March 19, 2024

Version 1.7.1 of Private Mendix Platform is a patch release addressing several bugfixes.

#### Fixes

We have provided the following fixes:

* (Marketplace) We have provided a fix for the Bulk Importer to support a no-authorization header.
* (CI/CD) We have added a hotfix for self-signed certificates.

## 1.7.0

### Release date: February 26, 2024

Version 1.7.0 of Private Mendix Platform introduces several key features related to the Marketplace, Platform experience, and improvements to the Build and Deploy (CI/CD) capabilities.

#### New Features

##### Statistics Dashboard for Platform Usage

The dashboard allows company admins to view the Platform usage statistics and get a quick graphical representation of ongoing Platform activity through metrics like project creation, collaboration activity, and so on.

##### Platform Notifications

Enjoy more interactivity across users and stay more up-to-date thanks to the newly introduced Notifications feature on the Platform. App invites now display as notifications in the top bar of the Platform, which unfolds a notification center with additional information and links to the relevant projects or pages.

#### Improvements

##### Marketplace Uploads Approval Policies

Better, more fine-grained governance controls for setting the approval policies for user-uploaded content in the Private Mendix Platform Marketplace. You can configure approvals for the following:

* Marketplace components in general
* Marketplace component versions individually

You can also set a component version to be unchangeable, to prevent versions from being edited after publication.

##### CI/CD Experience Improvements

Private Mendix Platform 1.7 contains various UI and UX improvements related to the setting of Build and Deploy capabilities, as well as the configuration of relevant service integrations and resource usage.

##### Engineering Improvements

###### Random Names for Environment Creation

For a more user-friendly environment creation process, a random unique name for each environment is generated as its identifier. The environment name is set as a human-readable label and displayed across the Platform where relevant. The technical name (or identifier) of the environment is now separate from the user-friendly label.

##### Other Improvements

###### Studio Pro Updates

* Studio Pro 9.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [9.24.16](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.24/#92416)
* Studio Pro 10.6 MTS latest patch version updated to [10.6.3](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.6/#1063)

#### Fixes

We have provided the following fixes:

* (General) We have fixed a login issue where the SSO login would error out.
* (Admin) We have fixed an issue with the second step of the **First-Time Setup** flow.
* (Platform) We have fixed an issue with 404 error in browser log appearing when Platform is loaded.
* (Platform) We have fixed an issue where the app could not be transferred to another user in certain cases.
* (Platform) We have fixed an issue where the user was unable to accept app request from other user in certain cases.
* (Developer) We have fixed an issue where the selected version did not stick in template selector.
* (Developer) We have fixed an issue with random Git error popups in Studio Pro 10.6.1.
* (Marketplace) We have fixed visual alignment issues with some card texts for Marketplace items.
* (Marketplace) We have fixed an issue where the component date changed after a new version was added.
* (CI/CD) We have fixed an issue with the auto-detection of packages for older Mendix-versions.
* (CI/CD) We have fixed an issue with autoscaling when the EKS node is unknown.
* (CI/CD) We have fixed an issue where unchecking **Keep Build pod** made it impossible to check the logs for pipeline jobs.
* (CI/CD) We have fixed an issue where Studio Pro 10.6.1 showed errors when creating a build package.
* (Download Portal) We have fixed an issue where the admin would revoke the access but the user remained logged in.
