---
title: "Mendix Private Platform Version 1.8 Release Notes"
linktitle: "1.8"
url: /releasenotes/private-platform/1-8/
description: "Release notes for version 1.8 of Private Mendix Platform"
weight: 70
---

These release notes cover changes made to the [Private Mendix Platform](/private-mendix-platform/) in version 1.8.

## 1.8.0

### Release date: March 31, 2024

Version 1.8.0 of Private Mendix Platform introduces a number of improvements and fixes that address various topics around the app project management, development (Studio Pro) and Marketplace domains.

#### New Features

##### Save and Get Notified Option for Marketplace content

Then new **Save and get notified** option for Marketplace content allows users to be notified when a new version of a content item is ready.

##### Contributor and Operator Project Roles

New roles are available for your projects.

###### Contributor Role

A Contributor role has the following rights and limitations:

* Should be invited to the Git repo
* Can access the Git server page
* Can open the app and commit code in Studio Pro
* Can build packages
* Cannot invite members to the project
* Cannot create environments or deploy to environments
* The **Publish** button in Studio Pro should be disabled for this role

###### Operator Role

An Operator role has the following rights and limitations:

* Will not be invited to the Git repo
* Cannot access the Git server page
* Cannot open the app in Studio Pro (the app is not displayed in their project list in Studio Pro)
* Cannot build packages
* Cannot invite members
* Can only create and deploy environments

#### Improvements

##### Developer Experience Improvements

###### Tooltips for Declined Content

When declining uploaded content the admin now has to specify a reason. The reason is visible to the user who uploaded the content.

###### Service Credentials Show the Configured Git Host

The Service Credentials drop-down list now highlights the configured Git host.

##### Engineering Improvements

###### Improved Experience for Invited Users

We have improved the user experience for users logging in after being invited to a new project.

###### Improved Compatibility with the Mendix Project Repository Structure

You can now set the default branch to *main* for the Bitbucket repository. This ensures better compatibility with the repository structure used by Mendix projects.

##### Other Improvements

###### Studio Pro Updates

* Studio Pro 9.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [9.24.16](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.24/#92416)
* Studio Pro 10.6 MTS latest patch version updated to [10.6.3](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.6/#1063)

#### Fixes

We have provided the following fixes:

* (General) We have standardized the app name format between Studio Pro and Private Mendix Platform.
* (Portal) We have fixed an issue where no error message was displayed in the UI and logs if the GitLab user ID specified during app creation was incorrect.
* (Portal) We have fixed some error pop-ups.
* (Portal) We have fixed an error pop-up displayed when the user entered an incorrect PAT ID for GitLab.
* (General) We have fixed the error *ERROR - Connector: 404 - file not found* for the *mxdevtools* file.
* (Portal) We have fixed the *Feedback no response* error.
* (Marketplace) We have fixed an issue where the Marketplace content disappeared from the Company Content and Content Management pages after being approved.
* (Studio Pro) We have fixed an issue where the Studio Pro login with OIDC failed when the profile image was too large.
* (Studio Pro) We have fixed an issue where it was not possible to create apps after logging in to Studio Pro with a GitLab OIDC login.
