---
title: "8.0"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/8.0/
description: "The release notes Mendix Studio Pro version 8.0 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
aliases:
    - /releasenotes/desktop-modeler/8.0.html
    - /releasenotes/desktop-modeler/8.0
weight: 100
---

## 8.0.0 General Availability {#800}

**Release date: August 1st, 2019**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "8.0.0" %}}

{{% alert color="info" %}}
For more information on this release, see the [General Availability of Mendix 8 Arrives — with Native Mobile, AI-Assisted Development, and More!](https://www.mendix.com/blog/ga-of-mendix-8-arrives/) blog post.
{{% /alert %}}

### New Features

#### Native Mobile

Mendix now enables you to build true native mobile apps as easily as you build other apps with Mendix. These native mobile apps offer fast performance, smooth animations, natural interaction patterns (like swipe gestures), and improved access to all native device capabilities. Mendix native mobile apps are offline-first, which means they work regardless of their internet connection. For more information, see [Offline First](/refguide8/offline-first/).

The new **Native mobile** navigation profile type has been added next to **Hybrid mobile**, which is still supported and available.

The native theme and styling is part of the Mendix Atlas UI framework. This means your app will look great out of the box, while you will still fully control your app's styling. Note that native styling is based on JavaScript instead of Sass/CSS. For more information on styling, see the [Native Mobile Styling Reference Guide](/refguide8/native-styling-refguide/).

To start creating a native mobile application, we recommend creating a new project based on the [Blank Native Mobile App](https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/component/109511/). This app template contains everything you need to quickly get started: a preconfigured native navigation profile, a large variety of mobile-specific widgets, and nanoflow activities that let you leverage your device's capabilities.

#### Make It Native

The Mendix **Make It Native** app is the companion app for Mendix native developers who want to streamline their development process. The **Make It Native** app allows you to preview your apps while still in development. This speeds up communication, debugging, and allows ideas to become reality more quickly. For an introduction to the Make It Native app, see [Get Started with Native Mobile](/howto8/mobile/getting-started-with-native-mobile/). For advanced information on debugging with the Make It Native app, see [Debug Native Mobile Apps (Advanced)](/howto8/mobile/native-debug/) 

The Mendix **Make It Native** app is available from [Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.mendix.developerapp) and [Apple Marketplace](https://apps.apple.com/app/make-it-native/id1334081181). We will continue to improve and extend their functionality. 

#### Native Builder	

The [Native Builder](/refguide8/native-builder/) is a command line input tool which helps you build your Mendix native mobile app. After the Native Builder simplifies your build process, you can do what you want most: test and publish your app. The Native Builder uses MxBuild, GitHub, and App Center to simplify the app building process. We are heavily invested in streamlining the experience of building your apps and are continuously improving upon the tool's capabilities.

#### Mendix Native App Template

Advanced users can now make direct use of our [Mendix Native App Template](http://github.com/mendix/native-template). This repository acts as a template for building Mendix native mobile apps, and as a guide for users who want to include native Mendix functionality in their own apps. 

The [Mendix Native App Template](http://github.com/mendix/native-template) is used by the [Native Builder](/refguide8/native-builder/) which means it will be consistently updated to support the latest native Mendix features.

#### JavaScript Actions

Extensibility is an important capability of Mendix, and JavaScript actions is a powerful new feature for Mendix 8. Studio Pro 8 now supports extending the platform via JavaScript actions that allow you to write custom activities for nanoflows in JavaScript. This can be used to leverage device or browser APIs, extend nanoflows with custom logic, perform complex calculations, and explore many other possibilities.

{{% alert color="info" %}}
Kudos to [Marcel Groeneweg for his upvoted idea](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas/665) about this on the [Mendix Idea Forum](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas)!
{{% /alert %}}

In addition to being awesome, JavaScript actions are already quite familiar to Mendix developers, because they are similar to Java actions. You will find the most-loved features of Java actions available: different parameter types, exposing as a nanoflow activity in the Studio Pro Toolbox, and packaging and distributing through the (public or private) Mendix Marketplace.

What really makes JavaScript actions stand out is that you can edit them without leaving Studio Pro. There is a powerful editor integrated right inside the **Code** tab of the JavaScript action document. This is based on the [Monaco Editor](https://microsoft.github.io/monaco-editor/index.html), which is the editor that powers the most popular IDE, Visual Studio Code. This editor delivers a great experience, as it supports smart context-aware auto-completion, embedded documentation on web and Mendix APIs, correct indenting, and code-friendly shortcuts.

#### Pluggable Widgets

This version introduces a new way of building widgets called pluggable widgets. This allows you to create widgets with React and use the simpler yet more powerful Mendix APIs. The main benefit of the new pluggable widget API is that it is truly reactive.

To support Mendix developers even more, we released a [Yeoman generator](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@mendix/generator-widget) that can be used to easily generate a widget project. This will get you quickly started via a fast and easy developer flow.

You can use this generator to create widgets for web and hybrid apps as well as native mobile apps based on JavaScript or TypeScript. The generator includes various options like creating an empty project, using a template, and generating test cases.

Moreover, pluggable widgets are able to use new and more powerful property types, such as the following:

* A **textTemplate** property type allows you to select text templates. The widget will receive a property where the [parameters](/refguide8/text/#parameters) in the text template are already expanded.
* An **action** property type allows you to select an action like call-microflow or open-page (in a way similar to the [on-click of a button](/refguide8/on-click-event/#on-click)). The widget will receive a callback to execute the configured action.
* The **expression** property allows you to configure an [expression](/refguide8/expressions/). The widget will get the result of that expression as an property.
* The **systemProperty** with the key **Label** indicates that the widget can have a label similar to that of the [text box](/refguide8/text-box/#label-properties). No additional code is needed in the widget for client-side support.

We also gave you more control of property dialog boxes for pluggable and custom widgets in Mendix Studio Pro. We added the new **propertyGroup** element, which groups nested properties into a tab (for a top-level **propertyGroup**) or a group box (for a nested one). More than two levels of nesting is not supported.

Another powerful capability is the option to use external dependencies and install them using **npm**.

If you want to start on your own pluggable widget after reading this, see [How to Build a Text Box Pluggable Widget: Part 1](/howto8/extensibility/create-a-pluggable-widget-one/) to get you started. 

#### Sub-Nanoflows

Nanoflows are widely popular, and as the need to share logic becomes more important, their usage increases. So, we are happy to release the **Call nanoflow** action, which lets you call a nanoflow within a nanoflow.

With this action, you can easily configure which nanoflow to call, fill in the parameter values, and capture the return value. Or, you can just drag and drop a nanoflow from **Project Explorer** in the nanoflow editor, and you are good to go!

#### Microflows in the Connector Kit

You can now expose your microflows as **Toolbox** actions, as is already available for Java and JavaScript actions.

#### AI-Assisted Development in Studio Pro

We added support for Mendix Assist in Studio Pro. For more information, see [Mendix Assist](/refguide8/mx-assist-studio-pro/) in the *Studio Pro 8 Guide*.

#### Error Codes in the Errors Pane

You are now able to see error codes in the **Errors** pane. You can navigate to the corresponding documentation (if available) by clicking the error code.

In addition, you are now able to see enhanced error messages.

#### Subversion Upgraded to Version 1.9

We upgraded the [Apache Subversion library](https://subversion.apache.org/download) used in Studio Pro to version 1.9. The previous version (1.7) is no longer supported in Studio Pro. Apache Subversion 1.9 brings improvements to performance, functionality, and network connectivity.

However, the new version uses a different working copy format, which means that you will not be able to use [TortoiseSVN](https://tortoisesvn.net/) 1.7.15 on those working copies.

The recommended setup for now is to keep TortoiseSVN 1.7.15 to use with apps from Mendix versions 5, 6, and 7, and to install [SmartSVN](https://www.smartsvn.com/) to use with Mendix 8 projects.

For more information, see [Subversion 1.9 in Mendix 8 Beta 2](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/questions/94078) on the Mendix Forum.

#### Design Properties

The design properties you know and love from Mendix Studio are now also available in Mendix Studio Pro. Design properties are defined in a [customizable](/howto8/front-end/extend-design-properties-to-customize/) *settings.json** file in your **theme** folder.
If you are using a class name in multiple places, and afterwards decide that it makes sense to have a design property for it, you can extend the settings file and use the **Project** > **Tools** > **Convert classes to design properties** menu option to convert from class names to design properties. When upgrading to Mendix Studio Pro this conversion is already done for you. 
We also added the design properties in the **Find Advanced** dialog box so that you can easily find them.

#### Structure Mode & Design Mode

The **Edit mode** in the page editor has been renamed to the **Structure mode**, and the **View mode** has been upgraded to the **Design mode**! The **Design mode** is not limited to just previewing your app, as you can now edit the page without having to switch modes. Combined with significant improvements in resource management, we do not know why you would ever want to go back! 

### Improvements

*  We improved the visualization of self-referencing associations in the domain model editor. You will now find them much easier to select! As a bonus, the cardinality numbers are now displayed on the line as opposed to next to it.
	{{% alert color="info" %}}This is based on upvoted ideas from [Nikolaus Weiss](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas/789), [Dion Witteveen](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas/481), and [Ronald van Puijenbroek](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas/988) (with 44 votes in total!) submitted to the [Mendix Idea Forum](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas). Thanks everyone!
	{{% /alert %}}
* When performing a version control operation such as **Update**, **Commit**, or **Merge**, we now check if your working copy is locked. If it is, you can unlock it before continuing. (Ticket 84321)
* We renamed the **Create snippet** context menu item to **Extract snippet** and the **Extract snippet** context menu item to **Inline snippet** in order to be consistent with [Mendix Studio](/studio8/general/).
* As the DOM output has been improved and old [Atlas UI](/howto8/front-end/atlas-ui/) modules of version 1.x.x are not compatible with Studio Pro 8, we have implemented an automatic migration to Atlas UI 2.1 if you are using a non-modified version of Atlas UI.
* We have updated the build in the **Blank** app template to the latest updated Atlas UI framework resources, so you can still start building a new Mendix app when you are offline.
* We made the experience of creating new objects inside loops way easier. Now, when you create a new object by dragging it from another object in the loop, the loop automatically expands to accommodate the newly created object.
* We added the [Mendix Assist](/refguide8/mx-assist-studio-pro/) status in the lower-right corner of the microflow editor to make server interaction with it clearer. When Mendix is performing any server requests, the status text says **Thinking**, when Mendix Assist is ready for action, it says **Ready**, and if you are offline or Mendix cannot reach the server, Mendix Assist status will say **Offline**. 
* Instead of forcing you to migrate to the new code generation style for Java actions straight away, we are introducing a deprecation warning and an option to control the generation mode. When the option is "on," Studio Pro 8 will append postfixes to your Java action parameters (as it did in the Desktop Modeler) if it encounters name clashes. This allows for a smoother migration.
* We improved the content that clients receive when calling a [published OData service](/refguide8/published-odata-services/). When you do not have access to an association, you will no longer see a link to that association.
* If you use S3 storage, you can (and should) now configure the S3 storage region using the [com.mendix.storage.s3.Region](/refguide8/custom-settings/#s3-region) custom setting.
* We upgraded the Azure storage **.jar** from 8.2.0 to 8.3.0, and we upgraded **jackson-databind** and **jackson-core** from 2.9.8 to 2.9.9.
* We added the **create-module-package** option to **mxutil.exe** to export modules from the command line. The option accepts parameters to provide exclusion filters for the app files and has a built-in filter to add only the required libraries from `userlib` when they are accompanied by a **.[ModuleName].RequiredLib** marker file.
* We added support for placeholder text in date picker widgets for the iOS and Android mobile platforms.
*  We improved **web accessibility** to make Mendix apps more accessible for end-users working with screen readers:
	* The data grid pagination is now properly accessible for screen readers and provides the paging button that is in focus and the current page that is selected.
	* The data grid now has a new attribute named **Caption**, which can be used to describe the content and is only visible for screen readers.
	* Drop-down buttons are now accessible by screen readers, and end-users can use the keyboard to navigate and select a value.
	* For each input widget, we improved the validation message, so screen readers will start reading the error when added.
	* Tab containers can now be seen by screen readers, and end-users can use the keyboard to select the visible tab.
* The context menu of layout grid columns in **Design mode** now offers the options to add and remove rows.
* <a name="float-currency"></a>The types **float** and **currency** have been deprecated since Mendix 6. In Mendix 8, using these types is no longer allowed. If your app still contains a lot of those types, we now help you more in getting rid of them. By right-clicking an error message and selecting **Convert all Float/Currency to Decimal**, you can quickly fix almost all float-related errors.
* <a name="dom-atlas-upgrades"></a>We improved the markup of pages generated by Mendix. These changes make widgets more accessible and consistent, and they give you a cleaner markup to work with. However, these changes this might affect your styling. If you are using [Atlas UI](/howto8/front-end/atlas-ui/), you should upgrade to the [latest version](/appstore/modules/atlas-ui-resources/). To see the exact changes we made to the markup, see  [Troubleshooting DOM Changes](/refguide8/migration-dom-issues/). If you have any custom styling in Atlas UI or if you created your own theme from scratch, you need to check and adapt your styling using [Troubleshooting Atlas UI Changes](/refguide8/migration-atlas/).
* To avoid confusion, we changed the naming of **variables** and **objects** in the microflow editor. Previously, the term "variable" could be used in different ways: as a name for a list of objects or as an object itself. This has now been cleared up. There are some outstanding changes that will be addressed in future.
* Exclusive split and inheritance split have been renamed to **Decision** and **Object type decision**, respectively.
* You can make many native widgets conditionally editable in Studio Pro.
* [Mendix Assist](/refguide8/mx-assist-studio-pro/) now takes the return type of a microflow into account when providing recommendations.
* In published OData services, you can now specify the path. It always starts with **/odata/**, but after that, you can specify more than just the service name. Use this, for example, to make the version a part of the URL.
* In the Studio Pro user interface of published OData services, we renamed **Entity set name** to **Exposed set name** in order to clearly express that this is an exposed name.
* We added a documentation/help button to the dialog box for editing a message definition.
* In the **Call REST action**, we added support for posting form data to a REST service.
* We upgraded Swagger UI (used in the interactive documentation of published REST services) from 3.4.3 to 3.22.2.
* Because this is Mendix Studio Pro, the executable file is now named **studiopro.exe**.
* We improved logging to better diagnose problems with staying signed in to Studio Pro.
* If **critical messages** have been logged, the echo action now only returns the first 10 messages. It also reports the total number of critical messages logged.
* Averages of integer attributes are now calculated using decimals instead of floats.
* The custom runtime property **DataStorage.CountOnAttribute** has been removed.
* Stricter type-checking is now applied on query parameter values: arbitrary arrays are no longer allowed to be passed, and passing null as an argument of **RANGEBEGIN/RANGEEND** now results in an error.
* In the [OpenApi 2.0 (Swagger)](/refguide8/open-api/) documentation of a REST operation based on a message definition, we now use the exposed single name as the definition name. This is a better choice for the title than the name of the message definition.
* We introduced the **NoClientCertificateUsages** [custom setting](/refguide8/custom-settings/), in which you can specify web services. 
* We improved the UI for [published OData services](/refguide8/published-odata-services/). It is now a tab instead of a pop-up window.
* In [published OData services](/refguide8/published-odata-services/), you can now specify the names of associations to be used in the metadata.
* Successful login, user session creation, reuse of an anonymous session, and session destroy events are now logged in the trace log.
* We improved the performance of showing bulk log lines in Studio Pro. Log lines are now shown more quickly when they are received from a running server.
* We upgraded the AWS Java SDK For Amazon S3 from 1.11.525 to 1.11.534.
* When you search for unused items in Studio Pro, unused message definitions are now also reported.
* When adding a custom setting configuration, the **Name** and **Value** fields are now required.
* You will now be warned if you have no attribute selected while entering entity indexes.
* We fixed a crash that you might have noticed when selecting an application from the **Recent Apps** screen.
* It turned out that the fast re-run option (that is, when you re-run an app already running locally) is too fast! Some people did not notice their browser was reloaded with new changes before they opened it, so we added an explicit notification message in the browser.
* We improved how we generate the contents of list views (via the **Automatically fill the contents** option). Now, inside a read-only list view, we generate text widgets instead of input widgets.
*  We now allow you to pass a Boolean expression to a string function in microflow expressions.
	{{% alert color="info" %}}This is based on an [upvoted idea from Sander Wamelink](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas/402) submitted to the [Mendix Idea Forum](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas). Thanks, Sander!
	{{% /alert %}}
* When using the **Batch Translate** and **Batch Replace** forms, we now warn you when you have nothing selected.
* We improved the performance of Mendix Studio Pro when you are adding or deleting documents. The algorithm ensuring consistency now performs fewer searches through the app.
* We changed the deprecated content type for **/api-doc/fonts/OpenSans-Light-webfont.woff** to **font/woff**.

#### Nanoflow Improvements

A nanoflow is a powerful tool to make your offline apps really smart and also easy to build. With this major release, we are making them even better!

These are the general improvements to nanoflows:

* Date expression functions can now be used in nanoflows. Note that these functions use the time settings of the user's browser instead of the server settings. Parsing and formatting time zones is not supported in nanoflows.
* With this release, nanoflows have received custom error-handling functionality. The experience is similar to what you are used to in microflows: you can select **Custom** error-handling from the context menu of an activity, and then use the **$latestError** variable in your error flow.
* This functionality can come in handy when, for example, you are synchronizing in an offline app while the app has no network connection. By default, such synchronization used to fail the nanoflow and show a message to the user. Now, you have the power to adjust that behavior.

The following improvements close the gap between what you can model in nanoflows versus microflows:

* The **Retrieve objects** activity now supports XPath constraints like microflows do. You can use familiar language to limit the data you retrieve from offline databases (or online databases, when the nanoflow is run online). For now, you cannot follow associations in these constraints.
* The **Aggregate list** activity makes all your lists count! Along with **List operation**, this brings nanoflows up to par with microflows when it comes to working with lists.
* We now support the **Show message** activity for nanoflows as well.
* We now allow nanoflows to be used as data sources for data views. This should reduce the need to pass parameters to pages and especially help with the home pages of offline apps.
* You can now use the simple but handy **toString** function in nanoflow expressions as well as in conditional visibility expressions.

#### Database Improvements

We updated database vendor versions described below.

* We added support for the following:
	* Oracle 12.2
	* MariaDB 10.2, 10.3
	* MySQL 8
	* PostgreSQL 11
* We dropped support for the following versions no longer supported by vendors:
	* Oracle 11, 12.1
	* MySQL 5.5, 5.6
	* MariaDB 10.0
	* PostgreSQL 9.2, 9.3
	* SQL Server 2008, 2008r2, 2012
* We dropped support for versions that will no longer be supported by Q4 2019:
	* PostgreSQL 9.4
	* SQL Server 2014

#### Published OData Service Improvements

We made the following significant improvements to published OData services:

* You will now see the responses to OData calls in trace logging.
* You can now specify the version of the OData service. This is shown in **/odata-doc/**.
* You can now write documentation for each resource
* You can now choose between different authentication methods, including custom authentication using a microflow.
* Clients can now order by the properties of associated objects.
* Clients can now filter results based on associated data (when associations are exposed as links).
* Clients can now filter based on many-associations using **any**.

#### Input Widget Improvements

To improve the quality of the client, we rewrote the text box, text area, check box, drop-down, radio button, and date picker input widgets. For these widgets, we implemented the following improvements:

* Widgets are shown as read-only if you try to edit an object you have no right to access due to an XPath constraint.
* Previously, when a server side validation was set for an attribute for which the widget is conditionally hidden, the validation was not shown to a user. We now show you a validation error in a pop-up window.
* When you enter an invalid value in the conditionally hidden widget, this value is cleared. When the widget is shown, it will contain the current valid value.

##### Text Box Improvements

We fixed an issue that occurred when you changed a value resulting in a validation error, you reverted the value to the original one, and the validation error was not removed.

The **On change** event is now triggered if you change the value of a numeric text box and press <kbd>Enter</kbd>. This behavior is consistent with the character and date fields.

We also made a number of improvements on the input mask of the text box:

* It now properly supports pasting a value in the input mask.
* Non-ASCII characters are supported.
* Mask characters can be escaped.
* The database value is now properly displayed according to the input mask in all the browsers supported by the client.
* There is a consistency check for the correspondence between the maximum length of a field and the length of the entered input mask.

##### Text Area Improvements

We introduced the following improvements for the text area widget:

* The counter is now always correct, even when unfocused and when special **Alt** sequences are typed.
* The counter is displayed even when the read-only style is in control.
* Auto-grow has a smoother rendering, with no more delay between the input and the actual growth of the widget.
* A disabled text area with auto-grow and read-only style controls now actually grows.

##### Check Box Improvements

We introduced the following improvements for the check box widget:

* When the form orientation is vertical, the error message is now correctly put after the input instead of after the label and before the input.
* The check-box CSS class was set on the wrong **div** if the read-only style was set to control and the form orientation was horizontal. It was missing if the form orientation was vertical. We have fixed this.

##### Drop-Down & Radio Button Improvements

The following improvement was introduced for the drop-down and radio button widgets: Deleted enumeration options that are still in the database are now shown correctly (but cannot be selected anymore).

##### Date Picker Improvements

We introduced the following improvements for the date picker widget:

* The timestamp zero is now displayed properly.
* The native date picker now dispatches changes on every change in the native calendar/picker.
* Opening the calendar no longer triggers the **On change** action/validation immediately.
* Quoted characters in custom date formats are now handled correctly (for example, in the default placeholder).
* Opening the calendar in right-to-left mode no longer messes up the page layout.
* Opening the calendar for an empty date now correctly highlights the current date as selected date.
* When formatting minutes, the leading zero is no longer mandatory.

### Upgrades

We upgraded the following runtime dependencies:

* **axiom-api**, **axiom-dom**, and **axiom-impl** to 1.2.22
* **azure-storage** from 8.1.0 to 8.2.0
* **ttpcore** to 4.4.11
* **xmlbeans** from 2.6.0\_2 to 3.0.2\_1

### Deprecations

*  We deprecated the following [Client API](https://apidocs.rnd.mendix.com/8/client/index.html) methods: 
	* `mx.baseUrl`
	* `mx.session.getUserAttribute`
	* `mx.session.getUserClass`
	* `mx.ui.action`
* We deprecated the `CoreAction.setSystemAction` Java method.

### Breaking Changes

* Using system entities other than **User**, **FileDocument**, or **Image** as generalizations is no longer allowed. Using other system entities was deprecated in Mendix version 5.15.
*  We are now using a newer version of [CLDR specifications (release 33)](http://cldr.unicode.org/index/downloads) for representing dates and numbers. Starting with Java 9, the JVM prefers CLDR locales over built-in JRE ones. We are using Java 11 starting with Mendix 8.0.0, so this means that some locales will have different configurations (for example, date time formatting). Here are a few examples of the changes you can expect:
	* Some locales now format dates with a comma between the date and time (for example, `6/19/2019, 9:43 AM` instead of `6/19/2019 9:43 AM`).
	* Some locales now add a period at the end of an abbreviation (for example, `jan.` instead of `jan`, or `mon.` instead of `mon`).
	* Where previously we only had a subset of locales (for example, just a single one for all Arabic locales), we now have specific ones (as in, for different Arabic regions).
	* In microflow expressions, functions like `formatDateTime` as well as `toString` that are called on a `MendixDateTime` object using a default pattern might return a different result.
* We changed the date formatting API for custom widgets, and some parameters are no longer supported. The updated parameters are documented in [Namespace: parser](https://apidocs.rnd.mendix.com/8/client/mx.parser.html) in the *Mendix Client API*.
* It is no longer possible to use the Arial and Tahoma fonts in **document templates**. These fonts will be automatically replaced with Helvetica when you upgrade. As an alternative, you can provide custom fonts (for details on how to do this, see the [Custom Fonts for PDF Documents](/refguide8/style/#custom-fonts) section of *Style*).
* Session removal is now logged at the **DEBUG** level, not at the **INFO** level.
*  We removed the following methods that do not have alternatives, as we determined there were no valid use cases for them:
	* `MendixHashString.setInitialHash`
	* `IContext.addFeedback`
	* `IContext.getFeedbackList`
	* `Configuration.getConstantValue(Object component, String key)`
* We removed the deprecated `retrieveXPathQueryEscaped` and `retrieveXPathSchemaEscaped` methods from the [Runtime API](https://apidocs.rnd.mendix.com/8/runtime/com/mendix/core/Core.html).
* We removed the deprecated `ISession.getLanguage()` method. Use `Core.getLanguage(IContext)` instead.
* We removed the deprecated `ISession.getUser()` method. Use `ISession.getUser(context)` instead.
* We removed the deprecated `Core.addListener` Java method. Use `Core.getListenersRegistry().addListener()` instead.
* We removed the deprecated `ObjectState.COMMITTING` Java enum value.
* We now require Java 11 as the minimum Java version for compiling and running Mendix applications.
* We removed the `code`, `permanent`, `eden`, `survivor`, and `tenured` fields from the `memory` section of the `runtime_statistics` admin action's result. They had already been reported as `0` in Mendix 7.
* The `com.mendix.core.conf.Configuration` interface's `getCACerficates` and `getClientCertificates` methods as well as the `com.mendix.core.conf.WebServiceCertificateInfo` class's `getCertificateInputStream` method now throw `IOException` instead of `FileNotFoundException`. As these are checked exceptions, if you use these public API methods, you should adapt your code.
* We migrated our navigation library for native mobile apps from **React Native Navigation** to **React Navigation**. The **React Navigation** API is not exposed for direct usage in Javascript actions or widgets. If you leveraged the exposed **React Native Navigation** APIs from a widget or Javascript action, you will have to remove this usage from your code.
* We upgraded to [React Native 0.59.9](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/versions). You will need to update the **Make It Native** app from [Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.mendix.developerapp) or the [Apple Marketplace](https://apps.apple.com/app/make-it-native/id1334081181).
* We dropped support for the **float** and **currency** types. For more information on this change, see the [improvement](#float-currency) documented above.
* Updates to Atlas UI and the DOM may cause breaking changes. To resolve these issues see [Troubleshooting Atlas UI Changes](/refguide8/migration-atlas/) or [Troubleshooting DOM Changes](/refguide8/migration-dom-issues/), respectively.
* After being deprecated for years, cross-module associations to **System** with owner **Both** are no longer supported.
* We rely on the default locale preferences of the Java Virtual Machine (JVM). Since Java 9, the JVM prefers Common Locale Data Repository (CLDR) locales over built-in Java Runtime Environment (JRE) ones. This means that some locales will have different configurations. For example, in an **en_US** locale, the default date time format is different. As a consequence, in microflow expressions, functions like `formatDateTime` as well as `toString` calling on a `MendixDateTime` object using a default pattern might return a different result.
* We now require Java 11 as the minimum Java version for compiling and running Mendix applications.
* We stopped including **Bootstrap** JavaScript code in resources under the **lib/bootstrap/js** path. If your theme's HTML page still imports these files, you must include them in your theme explicitly.
* We migrated Studio Pro to **.NET Framework 4.7.2**. This adds more security, performance, and stability, and it includes better support for viewing Studio Pro on high DPI screens.
* MxBuild now requires **Mono 5.20.x** to run.
* We fixed the annoying behavior where the name of an entity or enumeration caused compiling errors in your Java action user code or dataset proxies. This is a breaking change in Java-code generation. Studio Pro no longer adds `_ParameterX` to Java action parameter names in the generated code. (Tickets 55605, 55688, 55997, 56002, 56250, 59735, 59943, 67995, 69693, 80018, 81150)
* Previously, the Mendix Client put a lot of effort into adding `mx-focus` to an element that received focus and removing it when the element lost the focus. Because all [supported browsers](/refguide8/system-requirements/#browsers) now have proper support for the `:focus` pseudo-class, it is no longer necessary to do that. If you are using this class in your theme, replace it with the `:focus` pseudo-class.
* We blacklisted a number of custom widgets which were using deprecated APIs that got removed upon this release.
* We removed support for running Studio Pro on 32-bit systems. Studio Pro now runs only on 64-bit systems.
* We removed support for Windows Phone and iOS versions 9–11.
* We removed support for the deprecated old implementation of web service calls.
* We removed the deprecated setting `WebServiceClientCertificates`. Use `ClientCertificateUsages` instead.
* We removed the deprecated setting `com.mendix.storage.s3.PerformDeleteFromStorage`. Use `com.mendix.storage.PerformDeleteFromStorage` instead.
* We removed the deprecated Java methods `Core.integration().executeHttpRequest()`, `Core.importStream()`, and `Core.exportStream()`. Use `Core.http().executeHttpRequest()`, `Core.integration().importStream()`, and `Core.integration().exportStream()` instead.
* We removed support for IBM swift storage.
* We removed the Client APIs marked as to-be-removed in Mendix 8.  Check the currently supported list in [Mendix 8 Client API Documentation](https://apidocs.rnd.mendix.com/8/client/index.html).
* We removed support for the deprecated report chart widget.
* When a custom widget is used to change the markup of an input widget that has been rewritten, the applied changes will be lost when the input widget is completely re-rendered (which might happen, for example, when it is conditionally hidden and shown). Examples of such custom widgets are the **Set attribute** and **EnumClass** widgets.
* Apps made in Mendix Studio Pro 8.0.0 and above *cannot* be deployed to **Mendix Cloud v3**.

### Known Issues

* The first deployment of a project with a native mobile profile takes up to approximately one minute longer than usual, as it needs to build up a cache. On consecutive deployments, this time is reduced.
	* Fixed in [8.10.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.10/#211).
* MySQL 8.0 cannot be used with the default authentication plugin as of this moment. Mendix uses the open-source [MariaDB](https://mariadb.com/) driver to connect, which has not yet added support. We will include the updated driver as soon as it is [released](https://jira.mariadb.org/browse/CONJ-663). To resolve this issue, you may consider using the [previous default plugin](https://mysqlserverteam.com/upgrading-to-mysql-8-0-default-authentication-plugin-considerations/) until the driver has been updated.
	* Fixed in [8.7.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.7/#1530).
* Users with non-administrative [user roles](/refguide/user-roles/) with the permission to manage users are able to escalate their privileges. For more information on this vulnerability, see [SSA-875726 Privilege Escalation Vulnerability in Mendix](https://new.siemens.com/global/en/products/services/cert.html#SecurityPublications).
	* Fixed in [8.6.9](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.6/#875726).
* Downloading private content in the Marketplace available in Studio Pro has been temporarily disabled due to a security risk. Please see this issue described in the [Marketplace release notes](/releasenotes/app-store/#private-fix) for more information, details about where to find your private content, and plans for future version-specific fixes.
	* Fixed in [8.6.4](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.6/#private-content).
* In native mobile apps, the back button text changes to **Back** in the case of longer page titles. This is currently not translatable.
	* Fixed in [8.2.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.2/#170).
* When opening *.mpr* or *.mpk* files from File Explorer, you may see the message "Please wait while Windows configures Mendix Version Selector."
	* Fixed in [8.1.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.1/#868).
* In native mobile apps, bottom bar captions and page titles are currently not translatable.
	* Fixed in [8.1.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.1/#171).
* Azure SQL Database currently identifies itself as a variant of SQL Server 2014, even though it supports newer features. As SQL Server 2014 is not supported, Mendix Runtime refuses to connect to this database.
	* Fixed in [8.1.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.1/#1610).
* Studio Pro returns incorrect results for XPath queries when the same entity member (either an attribute or an association) is compared against different values.
	* Fixed in [8.1.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.1/#1587).

## 8.0.0 Beta Releases

**Release date: July 9th, 2019**

{{% youtube _QMhOmc2LKA %}}

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
Studio Pro 8.0.0 Beta apps that are converted to 8.0.0 General Availability can no longer be opened in 8.0.0 Beta versions. Support for 8.0.0 Beta versions is dropped with the release of 8.0.0 General Availability.
{{% /alert %}}

* We fixed an issue where changes rolled back in a microflow were not reflected in the client when run asynchronously.
* We fixed an out-of-memory issue on cluster slaves caused by persistent session objects. (Ticket 80910)
* We improved and fixed the documentation of the `Core.commit` and `Core.commitWithoutEvents` methods. (Ticket 80711)
* We removed the deprecated annotation of the `Core.getActiveSession(..)` and `Core.getActiveSessions` Java methods. These methods now return the actual active sessions.
* We resolved the issue where cross-module associations pointed the wrong way. (Ticket 85966)
* We resolved the issue where the <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Tab</kbd> keyboard shortcut failed to switch to another tab. (Tickets 84573, 85938)
* We resolved the issue where retrieving data over an association contained duplicate data in offline apps.
* We fixed an issue where the **Save** button did not save the objects of a nanoflow-sourced data view on native.
* We fixed an issue where you could not search for changes introduced in nanoflows from convenience methods in the domain model. For more information, see [Search for Nanoflow action](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas/718) on the Mendix Forum. (Ticket 77034)
* We fixed an issue where searching for texts in expressions only showed texts used in microflows, not in pages. For more information, see [Search for Nanoflow action](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas/966) on the Mendix Forum.
* We fixed an error that occurred when switching back and forth between return types in Java and JavaScript actions.
* We fixed a problem where Studio Pro froze when switching between networks.
* We fixed an issue in [import mappings](/refguide8/import-mappings/) in Studio Pro where using a parameter as a key moved that parameter away from the top, resulting in a consistency error that could only be resolved by mapping the entity again.
* We fixed an issue introduced in the Mendix 8.0.0 Beta 2 release where setting access rules on non-persistable entities was no longer possible (you could only set them if you temporarily changed the entity to persistable). (Ticket 848984)
* We fixed an issue introduced in the Mendix 8.0.0 Beta 2 release where saving files in the Mendix Cloud resulted in an error. (Tickets 84685, 84862, 84961, 85137, 85156, 85372, 85733, 85734, 85800, 85899, 86135)
* We fixed an issue in [published OData services](/refguide8/published-odata-services/) where the example location of a resource included an extra slash.
* We fixed the sorting when using multiple sort directions in an `XPathBasicQuery`.
* We fixed an exception in the database model synchronization where an entity derived from another module was changed at the same time as that module was renamed. (Ticket 77644)
* The date picker widget on iOS web and hybrid applications can now select a valid data-time and clear the date value without receiving validation errors. (Ticket 83433)
* We improved the editing behavior of the data grid widget so that when an on-change microflow is slow, it no longer resets to the old values. (Ticket 84282)
* We fixed an issue where Windows 7 users where not able to sign in into Studio Pro.
* We fixed an issue that prevented some users from merging specific revisions from another branch. (Ticket 85619)
* We now prevent you from opening a non-versioned app that happens to be located in a directory that is under version control. This situation can occur if an app was accidentally created inside the folder of a versioned app. In this scenario, it is best for you to clean up your directory, even if Studio Pro no longer throws an exception.
* The check box in the **Constrained by** dialog box is now visible on high DPI screens. (Ticket 82461)
* <a name="69295"></a>We fixed an issue where the error check progress bar remained stuck. (Ticket 69295)
* <a name="82615"></a>**Design mode** now properly supports all the changes made to custom widget properties and no longer displays an eternal loading spinner for pages that contain them. (Ticket 82615)
* Previously, you could select the user role token in nanoflow XPath retrieves, resulting in an invalid token error. This is now updated, and the user role token is no longer selectable here. (Ticket 83007)
* SVG support has been fixed. (Tickets 84976, 84989, 85358)
* We made it possible to have more than one thousand documents at the same level in Studio Pro, but please try to avoid that situation anyway. (Ticket 82990)
* We noticed that Mendix Assist was rather slow on big microflows, which made it rather unusable in that context. Well, not anymore!
* We fixed an issue where log messages were truncated if they contained null characters.
* We fixed an issue where pasting a Model Share into the **System** module resulted in an error.
* We added checks that warn you when you create a validation rule that will crash when running your app. (Tickets 82448, 46497)
* We fixed an issue where there was a difference between JSON validation in Studio Pro and MxBuild on Linux. (Tickets 61771, 62022)
* We fixed an issue in the metadata of [published OData services](/refguide8/published-odata-services/) where if you published associations as links and gave the same exposed name on both sides, the metadata was invalid. This was because it used the same role on both sides.
* We fixed an issue in validation rules for the the domain model editor where the minimum and maximum values were shown in the wrong order.
* We fixed an issue in consumed REST services where encoded URLs were decoded too early. We upgraded *httpclient.jar* from 4.5.7 to 4.5.8. (Ticket 83346)
* We fixed an issue where the **Progress**  pop-up window was too small to show the progress bar when the message was long.
* We fixed an issue where some [Client APIs](https://apidocs.rnd.mendix.com/8/client/index.html) were not available to [JavaScript actions](/howto8/extensibility/write-javascript-actions/) on [native mobile](/refguide8/native-mobile/) apps.
* We fixed an issue where a dynamic image using an object over an association did not show on a native page.
* We fixed an issue where the on-click nanoflow of a dynamic image widget on a native page did not receive a parameter object.
* We fixed an issue where the [Design mode](/refguide8/page/) did not correctly load when the app contained native custom widgets.
* We fixed an issue where parsing XML with elements differing in case sensitivity failed.
* We fixed an issue where parsing an empty date-time resulted in a default date instead of empty. (Ticket 79828)
* We fixed an issue where offline app synchronization failed when synchronized file entities had security constraints. (Ticket 76082)
* We fixed a bug where a data grid tooltip was displayed with missing data. (Ticket 78301)
* The document exporter will now use country-specific currency formatting if such a language is selected. (Ticket 80402)
* When an end-user is accessing a page URL without sufficient privileges, the login page will now show this message: "You don't have enough permissions to access this page. You may try to log in as a different user." (Ticket 46929)
* When an end-user is accessing a page URL without sufficient privileges, they might want an easy way to go back to the home page. If your theme does not already contain a **Go home** button, you must now add a button with the `goHomeButton` ID in your login page in your theme. This button will only be shown when the end-user is trying to access a page URL they do not have permission to access. (Tickets 46929, 68401)
* We fixed a bug in the **Extract sub-microflow** functionality for loops with objects inside. (Ticket 77673)
* You will not encounter errors anymore when debugging an application from Eclipse with the default runtime port. (Tickets 63971, 64886, 68651)
* We fixed an issue where you could not configure a Java action call action with many parameters. (Ticket 55350)
* A disconnected debugger session will no longer cause crashes. (Ticket 76990)
* The **Go to microflow** option now always shows up at the top of your context menu, where it belongs. 
* Several issues triggered by moving or adding page widgets were addressed.
* We (finally) consolidated the default values for static and dynamic images. When you add an image to a page, it will now always have the same default size, regardless of its type.
* We fixed an out-of-memory issue on cluster slaves caused by persistent session objects. (Ticket 80910)
* We improved and fixed the documentation of the `Core.commit` and `Core.commitWithoutEvents` methods. (Ticket 80711)
* We removed the deprecated annotation of the `Core.getActiveSession(..)` and `Core.getActiveSessions` Java methods. These methods now return the actual active sessions.
* We fixed a situation where data set access was out of date without showing an error. (Ticket 80381)
* We removed the **Get Started** page from the interface, because it is no longer actively used and under certain circumstances caused a crash. (Ticket 81645)
* We fixed an issue where Studio Pro crashed when previewing some images that were very narrow. (Ticket 80161)
* We fixed an issue in consumed web services where the header for SOAP 1.2 was `text/xml` instead of `application/soap+xml`. (Tickets 77527, 77867, 80167)
* We fixed an issue in published REST services where using a custom microflow for authentication resulted in an empty request body in the operation microflow. (Tickets 80147, 81114)
* <a name="81540"></a>We fixed an issue where after enabling [collaborative development with Studio](/refguide8/collaborative-development/) in the Developer Portal for an existing app, Studio Pro suggested doing this again. (Ticket 81540)
* <a name="81204"></a>We fixed the issue where debugging through the Studio Pro **Console** log was not possible while running an app from Eclipse, because the Console log would only show an empty window. (Ticket 81204)
