---
title: "8.1"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/8.1/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro version 8.1 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
weight: 99
---

## 8.1.1 {#811}

**Release date: September 10th, 2019**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "8.1.1" %}}

### Fix

* We fixed the issue where Studio Pro leaked memory. (Tickets 88045, 88075, 88100, 88142)

### Known Issues

* The first deployment of an app with a native mobile profile takes approximately one minute longer than usual, as the first deployment needs to build up a cache. On consecutive deployments, this time is reduced.
	* Fixed in [8.10.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.10/#211).
* MySQL 8.0 cannot be used with the default authentication plugin as of this moment. Mendix uses the open-source [MariaDB](https://mariadb.com/) driver to connect, which has not yet added support. We will include the updated driver as soon as it is [released](https://jira.mariadb.org/browse/CONJ-663). To resolve this issue, you may consider using the [previous default plugin](https://mysqlserverteam.com/upgrading-to-mysql-8-0-default-authentication-plugin-considerations/) until the driver has been updated.
	* Fixed in [8.7.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.7/#1530).
* Users with non-administrative [user roles](/refguide/user-roles/) with the permission to manage users are able to escalate their privileges. For more information on this vulnerability, see [SSA-875726 Privilege Escalation Vulnerability in Mendix](https://new.siemens.com/global/en/products/services/cert.html#SecurityPublications).
	* Fixed in [8.6.9](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.6/#875726).
* Downloading private content in the Marketplace available in Studio Pro has been temporarily disabled due to a security risk. Please see this issue described in the [Marketplace release notes](/releasenotes/app-store/#private-fix) for more information, details about where to find your private content, and plans for future version-specific fixes.
	* Fixed in [8.6.4](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.6/#private-content).
* When you use the **Extract sub-microflow** or **Extract sub-nanofow** functionality, the contents of the extracted flow might be lost after exiting Studio Pro. As a workaround, open the extracted flow, make a small change (for example, change the position of an activity), then save manually. (Ticket 88764)
	* Fixed in [8.3.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.3/#89101).
* When you have a conditionally visible widget and the object used for the conditional expression is deleted, this results in an error. (Tickets 88646, 88783, 89114, 89756, 90495, 90680)
	* Fixed in [8.3.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.3/#88646).
* It is possible to connect to SQL Server 2014 databases, although Mendix no longer supports that version.
	* Fixed in [8.2.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.2/#1637).
* In native mobile apps, the back button text changes to **Back** in case of longer page titles. This is currently not translatable.
	* Fixed in [8.2.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.2/#170).

## 8.1.0 {#810}

**Release date: September 2nd, 2019**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "8.1.0" %}}

{{% alert color="info" %}}
For more information on this release, see the [Mendix 8.1: Making Happiness](https://www.mendix.com/blog/mendix-8-1-making-happiness/) blog post.
{{% /alert %}}

### New Features

#### Pluggable Widget Capabilities

With this release, we are extending the capabilities of pluggable widgets. These widgets can now be made [conditionally visible](/refguide8/common-widget-properties/#visibility-properties) in the same way as all core Mendix widgets. As a widget developer, you can control how the **Visible** setting is presented to an end-user with the help of the new [Visibility system property](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/property-types-pluggable-widgets-8/#visibility).

In addition, pluggable widgets can now have an editable configuration, similar to that of [core input widgets](/refguide8/text-box/#editability). When a widget is marked as read-only or conditionally editable with the condition being false, then all the [EditableValue](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/property-types-pluggable-widgets-8/#attribute) it receives will be `readOnly`. To opt in for this feature, the pluggable widget can use the new [Editability system property](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/property-types-pluggable-widgets-8/#editability).

We also improved the documentation shipped with our [npm package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mendix) so that you can have better inline documentation in your IDE.

#### More Flexible App Modeling

The [data view](/refguide8/data-view/) is a powerful widget. However, building a UI can become more complex when multiple data views are needed. So, we improved one modeling scenario where data views were required. You can now make an input widget (for example, a [text box](/refguide8/text-box/) or [radio button](/refguide8/radio-buttons/)) showing an attribute over an association editable without introducing an intermediate data view over the association. This will make building pages easier and faster.

When you introduce a nested data view, there will now be less of a "hard border" on your page. That means you can use objects of all the surrounding data view widgets in your visibility, editability, and validation expressions (and not only the enclosing data view). You can do this by referring to the data view name as a variable.

The above features can be used by pluggable widgets as well, which is one more reason to [build](/howto8/extensibility/create-a-pluggable-widget-one/) one!

#### New `mx` Command-Line Tool

We added the [mx command-line tool](/refguide8/mx-command-line-tool/). This is a Windows and Linux command-line tool that can be used to convert the inputted app(s) to the version of Studio Pro with which the tool is bundled.

### Improvements

* <a name="868"></a>We improved the [Studio Pro installation experience](/howto8/general/install/) by changing the installer and Version Selector technology. This improves progress reporting and dependency installation. Also, if you choose to run Studio Pro at the end of the installer, it will no longer run in elevated mode.
* <a name="171"></a>In native mobile apps, page titles and bottom bar captions are now translatable.
* Anonymous users are now localized using the user's OS language instead of the app's default language. If the user's OS language is not recognized or not configured in the [Project Settings](/refguide8/project-settings/#languages), the project's default language will be used.
* The navigation mechanism of native mobile apps is now based on [React Navigation](https://reactnavigation.org/) instead of React Native Navigation.
* For number operations with native pluggable widgets, you can now use the [big.js](https://github.com/MikeMcl/big.js/) library.
* Specifying `isList` or `entityProperty` on the return type of an expression property in a pluggable widget will now cause a validation error when loading the widget package.
* [Mendix Assist](/refguide8/mx-assist-studio-pro/) now helps you with assigning condition values on the flows of a microflow.
* You can now configure [error handling](/howto8/logic-business-rules/set-up-error-handling/) via the **Properties** pane in your [microflow](/refguide8/microflow/).
* In published OData services, it is now possible to filter data using functions such as `substringof`, `startswith`, and `endswith` on attributes of associated entities.
* You can now configure the shared access signature and the blob endpoint for connecting to the [Azure Storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-in/services/storage/) service.
* We added a consistency check for XML export mappings. Using an attribute and a child element that have the same name is not supported.
* We improved support for calling services that require an `Expect: 100-continue` HTTP header.
    {{% alert color="info" %}}This is based on an upvoted idea from [Edwin van Elk](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/questions/94038) submitted to the [Mendix Idea Forum](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas). Thanks Edwin!
	{{% /alert %}}
* We changed the behavior of `OPTIONS` requests to published REST services. Authentication is no longer required when you define an `OPTIONS` microflow. In addition, when CORS is checked, you no longer need an `OPTIONS` microflows; the service will respond to `OPTIONS` requests with CORS headers. (Ticket 85462)
* You can now use the copy-paste command in the [Project Explorer](/refguide8/project-explorer/) to move most items.
* The nanoflow editor now supports extracting sub-nanoflows!

### Fixes

* We created a solution for Native Builder v1 being incompatible with Mendix 8.1. To use the Native Builder with Mendix 8.1, [download and use Native Builder v2](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/hpw7sshut9bco68/AABackrr75rPSgW7u5LBMkMra?dl=0).
* <a name="1610"></a>We fixed an issue that prevented connections to Azure SQL Databases by downgrading the minimum required engine version for SQL Server. (Ticket 87014)
* <a name="1587"></a>We fixed an issue where incorrect results were returned for XPath queries when the same entity member (either an attribute or an association) was compared against different values.
* We fixed an issue where the `needsEntityContext` attribute was required for a pluggable widget, but it had no effect. Now you can safely skip that attribute.
* You might have noticed that even if you disabled Mendix Assist, some requests were still sent to the service, though no suggestions were shown in the microflow. Such requests are no longer sent.
* We fixed an issue where Mendix Assist was sending too many requests when recovering from connectivity issues.
* We fixed an issue where a variable containing `NULL` or `empty` caused an error when used in the string comparison functions of XPath expressions. (Ticket 78645)
* We fixed an issue where a query for a [specialized entity](/refguide8/generalization-and-association/) containing a predicate with a path over an association of its generalization returned another instance of that generalization.
* We fixed an issue that prevented database migration in cases where the source database had a longer enumeration value than the column length generated on the current database based on the application domain model. (Ticket 65327)
* We fixed an issue in Studio Pro where a missing log message showed an exception pop-up window.
* We fixed an issue in Studio Pro where the metadata URL of a published OData service displayed a double slash where it should have been a single slash.
* We fixed an issue in the [web service call action](/howto8/integration/consume-a-complex-web-service/) so that when the result is empty, it now results in an empty value instead of going to the error handler.
* We fixed an issue where Studio Pro installation failed if AdoptOpenJDK had been installed manually.
* We upgraded the internal browser technology for more stability and security
* We fixed an issue in the Studio Pro Marketplace where clicking **Request info** for an Marketplace component led to an error message.
* We fixed an issue where a [home page microflow](/howto8/general/setting-up-the-navigation-structure/#home) with a return value resulted in a JVM exception. (Ticket 86303)
* We fixed a bug where an error occurred when deploying a native mobile app.
* We fixed an issue that prevented sessions from staying alive when using optimistic locking. (Ticket 85222)
* We fixed an issue that prevented some users from merging specific revisions from another branch. (Ticket 85619)
* We solved an issue in which the [retrieve action](/refguide8/retrieve/) wrongly added the prefix **New** to the object. (Ticket 85939)
* We fixed some error messages that had been truncated (with error codes CE0529, CE0569, and CE6554), and we fixed an incorrect error code prefix (to use CE1155, not CI1155).

### Known Issues

* The first deployment of an app with a native mobile profile takes approximately one minute longer than usual, as the first deployment needs to build up a cache. On consecutive deployments, this time is reduced.
	* Fixed in [8.10.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.10/#211).
* MySQL 8.0 cannot be used with the default authentication plugin as of this moment. Mendix uses the open-source [MariaDB](https://mariadb.com/) driver to connect, which has not yet added support. We will include the updated driver as soon as it is [released](https://jira.mariadb.org/browse/CONJ-663). To resolve this issue, you may consider using the [previous default plugin](https://mysqlserverteam.com/upgrading-to-mysql-8-0-default-authentication-plugin-considerations/) until the driver has been updated.
	* Fixed in [8.7.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.7/#1530).
* Users with non-administrative [user roles](/refguide/user-roles/) with the permission to manage users are able to escalate their privileges. For more information on this vulnerability, see [SSA-875726 Privilege Escalation Vulnerability in Mendix](https://new.siemens.com/global/en/products/services/cert.html#SecurityPublications).
	* Fixed in [8.6.9](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.6/#875726).
* Downloading private content in the Marketplace available in Studio Pro has been temporarily disabled due to a security risk. Please see this issue described in the [Marketplace release notes](/releasenotes/app-store/#private-fix) for more information, details about where to find your private content, and plans for future version-specific fixes.
	* Fixed in [8.6.4](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.6/#private-content).
* When you use the **Extract sub-microflow** or **Extract sub-nanofow** functionality, the contents of the extracted flow might be lost after exiting Studio Pro. As a workaround, open the extracted flow, make a small change (for example, change the position of an activity), then save manually. (Ticket 88764)
	* Fixed in [8.3.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.3/#89101).
* It is possible to connect to SQL Server 2014 databases, although Mendix no longer supports that version.
	* Fixed in [8.2.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.2/#1637).
* In native mobile apps, the back button text changes to **Back** in case of longer page titles. This is currently not translatable.
	* Fixed in [8.2.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.2/#170).
* In some situations, after opening an app in Studio Pro, Studio Pro starts leaking memory over time.
	* Fixed in [8.1.1](#811).
