---
title: "8.15"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/8.15/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro version 8.15 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
weight: 85
#KI: "When you update a consumed OData service" - DML-949
---

## 8.15.2 {#8152}

**Release date: November 9th, 2020**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "8.15.2" %}}

### Fixes

* <a name="109744"></a>We fixed an issue that prevented the Mendix Runtime from starting if a client or server certificate was provided using the **CACertificates** or **ClientCertificates** [custom settings](/refguide8/custom-settings/). (Tickets 109744, 110215, 110312, 110351, 110465, 110487, 110489)
* <a name="110317"></a>We fixed an issue with running an app containing a **FileDocument** created in Desktop Modeler version 5 or below where an error occurred in the **NodeManagementAction** that showed as the root cause that **System.TestFileDocument** was not a valid entity type. (Ticket 110317)

### Known Issues

* When you update a [consumed OData service](/refguide8/consumed-odata-service/) with a new version from [Mendix Data Hub](/data-hub/) but close the document without saving, the blue arrow icon will no longer be shown to notify you about the available update for that service.
	* Workaround: Closing your app and opening it again fixes this issue.
* Users with non-administrative [user roles](/refguide/user-roles/) with the permission to manage users are able to escalate their privileges. For more information on this vulnerability, see [SSA-875726 Privilege Escalation Vulnerability in Mendix](https://new.siemens.com/global/en/products/services/cert.html#SecurityPublications).
	* Fixed in [8.17.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.17/#875726).

## 8.15.1 {#8151}

**Release date: November 2nd, 2020**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "8.15.1" %}}

### Fixes

* We fixed the error that occurred when opening an app that was on disk using [8.15.0](#8150) and had suppressed warnings settings created in [8.13](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.13/) or [8.14](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.14/).

### Known Issues

* When you update a [consumed OData service](/refguide8/consumed-odata-service/) with a new version from [Mendix Data Hub](/data-hub/) but close the document without saving, the blue arrow icon will no longer be shown to notify you about the available update for that service.
	* Workaround: Closing your app and opening it again fixes this issue.
* Users with non-administrative [user roles](/refguide/user-roles/) with the permission to manage users are able to escalate their privileges. For more information on this vulnerability, see [SSA-875726 Privilege Escalation Vulnerability in Mendix](https://new.siemens.com/global/en/products/services/cert.html#SecurityPublications).
	* Fixed in [8.17.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.17/#875726).
* The Mendix Runtime cannot start if a client or server certificate is provided using the **CACertificates** or **ClientCertificates** [custom settings](/refguide8/custom-settings/). (Tickets 109744, 110215, 110312, 110351, 110465, 110487, 110489)
	* Fixed in [8.15.2](#109744).
* When running an app that contains a **FileDocument** created in Desktop Modeler version 5 or below, an error occurs in the **NodeManagementAction** that shows as the root cause that **System.TestFileDocument** is not a valid entity type.
	* Fixed in [8.15.2](#110317).

## 8.15.0 {#8150}

**Release date: October 27th, 2020**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "8.15.0" %}}

{{% alert color="info" %}}
For more information on this release, see the [Mendix 8.15 – It’s About Time](https://www.mendix.com/blog/mendix-8-15-its-about-time/) blog post.
{{% /alert %}}

### New Features

* We added `calendarMonthsBetween`, `calendarYearsBetween`, `dateTimeToEpoch`, and `epochToDateTime` as [microflow expression](/refguide8/expressions/) functions.

#### Mendix Native Mobile Builder

With Studio Pro 8.15 we are releasing the Mendix Native Mobile Builder. Mendix Native Mobile Builder is a UI tool to build your Mendix native mobile apps with just a few clicks. The UI replaces the CLI workflow and adds new enhanced functionality (such as signing your apps and setting up capabilities like push notifications) that was difficult or impossible to realize in a user-friendly way via a CLI. For more information, see the [Mendix Native Mobile Builder Release Notes](/releasenotes/mobile/mendix-native-mobile-builder/).

The tool is enabled for apps with a native mobile profile and can be accessed under the [Project](/refguide8/project-menu/) menu option. 

Mendix Native Mobile Builder supports background updates, which allows us to continuously push new updates and features independently of the Studio Pro release cycle. This way, you can have the latest features as soon as we release them.

### Improvements

* We improved the handling of the `Edm.Guid` type in [consumed OData services](/refguide8/consumed-odata-services/).
* We now show the metadata selection when you create a new [consumed OData service](/refguide8/consumed-odata-service/) document from **Project Explorer**.
* We improved the error message of missing OData references when using consumed OData services.
* We improved the screen for adding or editing a [consumed web service](/refguide8/consumed-web-service/). It is now a tabbed document instead of a pop-up window.
* We improved the performance of retrieving objects with associated data for some widgets in the case of calculated attributes.
* You can now use the [file manager](/refguide8/file-manager/) widget inside a [containment](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.3/#pluggable) or [repeatable containment](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.7/#capability) pluggable widget.
* We improved the customization of styles for the [text box](/refguide8/text-box/), [text area](/refguide8/text-area/), and [drop-down](/refguide8/drop-down/) native widgets in their focused state. Now, you are able to add specific styles when these widgets are focused. For more information, see [Native Mobile Styling](/refguide8/native-styling-refguide/) in the *Studio Pro Guide*.
* We introduced a new functionality called **On change behavior** to the text box widget. Now, when you select **While users are typing**, the text box will save changes every `x` milliseconds while doing changes on it, thus triggering the **On Change** event as well. For more information, see [Text Box](/refguide8/text-box/) in the *Studio Pro Guide*.
* We made the **Resulting classes** property in widget **Design properties** a multiline text, so it is easier to read.

### Fixes

* <a name="108885"></a>We fixed a known issue with deleting a branch from the [Branch Line Manager](/refguide8/branch-line-manager-dialog/). (Tickets 108885, 109072)
* <a name="2562"></a>We fixed a known performance issue with the [Delete object(s)](/refguide8/deleting-objects/) action. This action is no longer slowed down if there are microflow variables containing large lists of entities in scope.
* <a name="2554"></a>We fixed a known issue in the [debugger](/howto8/monitoring-troubleshooting/debug-microflows/) where an error was thrown when breakpoints were added to microflows from scheduled events.
* We fixed an issue in the [Project Explorer](/refguide8/project-explorer/) that prevented it from refreshing displayed information. (Ticket 105741, 109182)
* We fixed an issue where having floating panes and choosing [Distraction Free Mode](/refguide8/view-menu/#distraction-free) threw an error. (Ticket 107004)
* We fixed an issue with outgoing certificates when SSLFactory is used on ProgreSQL database connections. (Tickets 106733, 106792)
* We fixed an issue in the custom authentication of web services where a non-web service user was no longer authenticated. (Ticket 104172)
* We fixed a bug where the **Checking for errors** message in the status bar did not complete. (Ticket 108549)
* We fixed an issue where a nanoflow containing a [Change object](/refguide8/change-object/) action without any change items failed. (Ticket 107488)
* We fixed the initial center position of dialog boxes. (Ticket 105797)
* The native pop-up pages introduced in [8.14](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.14/) now have an improved look and feel, and problems with the pop-up close transition have been fixed. (Ticket 108341)
* We fixed an issue for native apps where the back button text was incorrect. (Ticket 102828)
* We fixed an issue where the remote debugging of a native mobile app did not work. (Ticket 103816)
* We fixed an issue with using specialization entities in a document template. (Ticket 106181)
* We drastically improved the performance of Studio Pro for apps that use many custom widgets. (Ticket 108326)
* Pluggable widget properties that were linked to a data source did not always update in the client when the data source was refreshed. (Ticket 105333)
* If an XPath data source with an entity path or a constraint using `[%CurrentObject%]` was configured on a pluggable widget, this caused an error in the client. This has been fixed. (Ticket 105333)
* When a pluggable widget has an `attribute` property and a `widgets` property linked to a `datasource` property, rendering additional items now updates the items already rendering with the last-used object. (Tickets 105333, 108482)
* We fixed a bug where the **Checking for errors** message in the status bar did not complete. (Ticket 108549)
* We fixed an issue in the tree where double-clicking a node reset the selection. (Ticket 102746)
* We fixed an issue with allowing users to copy all the entities in the domain model. (Ticket 105986)
* We fixed an error in the expression of a [Log message](/refguide8/log-message/) activity that is created by [Mendix Assist](/refguide8/mx-assist-studio-pro/). (Ticket 108966)
* We fixed an issue where on certain conditions, [data grid](/refguide8/data-grid/) tooltips threw errors when you hovered over them. (Tickets 103882, 106171)
* We fixed an issue where you could not paste a data grid column if the one you copied was the only one in the grid.
* Pluggable widgets on hybrid offline and native pages with an attribute property that are configured with an association are now automatically added to entities for offline synchronization.
* An SVG image that fails to render in Studio Pro due to technical restrictions no longer causes an exception. This exception prevented appds from being opened if they contained such an image.
* We changed the behavior of the consistency check that prevents side effects in data-source [nanoflows](/refguide8/nanoflows/). With this release, it does not raise an error anymore, just a warning.
* We fixed an issue that occurred when dragging an entity from the [Data Hub pane](/refguide8/data-hub-pane/) onto the domain model. When the references in the contract contain a cycle, there is now a better error message.
* We fixed an issue for [consumed OData services](/refguide8/consumed-odata-services/) where a binary attribute in the contract generated a binary attribute in the domain model, even though this was not supported. Now, it no longer generates an attribute in the domain model.
* We fixed an issue where the update functionality for consumed OData v4 services was not working because of unsupported attributes.
* The WSDLs of [consumed web services](/refguide8/consumed-web-services/) are no longer part of the deployment package (*.mda*).
* To protect the security of apps, Shockwave files (SWF) will no longer be displayed inline.
* When saving a page with a pluggable widget where the widget uses multiple attributes of different objects, not all object were saved. This is now fixed.
* By default, we now only run the old XPath/OQL query engine.
* Mendix Runtime no longer accepts a dot instead of a slash as a separator between entity and attribute names in XPath expressions. This was already illegal in Studio Pro.

### Known Issues

* When you update a [consumed OData service](/refguide8/consumed-odata-service/) with a new version from [Mendix Data Hub](/data-hub/) but close the document without saving, the blue arrow icon will no longer be shown to notify you about the available update for that service.
	* Workaround: Closing your app and opening it again fixes this issue.
* Users with non-administrative [user roles](/refguide/user-roles/) with the permission to manage users are able to escalate their privileges. For more information on this vulnerability, see [SSA-875726 Privilege Escalation Vulnerability in Mendix](https://new.siemens.com/global/en/products/services/cert.html#SecurityPublications).
	* Fixed in [8.17.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.17/#875726).
* The Mendix Runtime cannot start if a client or server certificate is provided using the **CACertificates** or **ClientCertificates** [custom settings](/refguide8/custom-settings/). (Tickets 109744, 110215, 110312, 110351, 110465, 110487, 110489)
	* Fixed in [8.15.2](#109744).
* When running an app that contains a **FileDocument** created in Desktop Modeler version 5 or below, an error occurs in the **NodeManagementAction** that shows as the root cause that **System.TestFileDocument** is not a valid entity type.
	* Fixed in [8.15.2](#110317).
* Opening an app that is on disk using 8.15.0 and has [suppressed warnings](/refguide8/suppression-rules/) settings created in [8.13](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.13/) or [8.14](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.14/) raises an "oops" pop-up window with an error message referring to a `System.NullReferenceException: Object reference not set to an instance of an object` that mentions the project's user settings.
	* Fixed in [8.15.1](#8151).
