---
title: "8.17"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/8.17/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro version 8.17 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
weight: 83
#When updating, remember to update the Latest Mendix Releases file
#KI: "When you update a consumed OData service" - DML-949
---

## 8.17.1 {#8171}

**Release date: January 21st, 2021**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "8.17.1" %}}

### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where calling a microflow from an offline-first application triggered an unnecessary reload of data sources on opened pages. (Ticket 114660)

## 8.17.0 {#8170}

**Release date: December 17th, 2020**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "8.17.0" %}}

### Improvements

* You can now use [external entities](/refguide8/external-entities/) in a startup microflow.
* For [consumed OData services](/refguide8/consumed-odata-services/), we have optimized the retrieval of external entities so that only the attributes that are used are retrieved from the service.
* [Published OData services](/refguide8/published-odata-services/) and [published REST services](/refguide8/published-rest-services/) now send a realm in their basic authentication challenge. This is not required, but it used to be, and we want to be as compliant as possible.
* The [Delete object(s)](/refguide8/deleting-objects/) microflow activity is now included in **Find usages** results.

### Fixes

* <a name="875726"></a>We applied an important security patch that fixed the [SSA-875726 Privilege Escalation Vulnerability](https://new.siemens.com/global/en/products/services/cert.html#SecurityPublications) for authenticated users. We strongly advise upgrading your Mendix applications to this version or to [8.18](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.18/), where the issue has been fixed.
* We fixed an issue where generating a get-by-key REST operation for a file-document entity caused an error. (Ticket 109637)
* We fixed an issue where using nested data views with [non-persistable entities](/refguide8/persistability/#non-persistable) resulted in an error in the client. (Ticket 110682)
* We fixed an issue that caused [Close page](/refguide8/close-page/) activities to stop working after upgrading to 8.16 or below. (Ticket 111576)
* We fixed an issue that result in a **StackOverflowError** during synchronization.

### Known Issues

* When you update a [consumed OData service](/refguide8/consumed-odata-service/) with a new version from [Mendix Data Hub](/data-hub/) but close the document without saving, the blue arrow icon will no longer be shown to notify you about the available update for that service.
	* Workaround: Closing your app and opening it again fixes this issue.
