---
title: "Modules"
category: "Modeler"
space: "Reference Guide 5"
---


A Mendix project consists of modules: a System module and one or more user-defined modules. Modules are a way to split the functionality of your application into separate parts. For example, a web shop can put order management in a different module than customer and product management. The Modeler does not enforce any kind of module structure; it is up to you to choose logical modules for your application.

A module can contain many different types of documents. Each type of document is described in its own domain-specific language (DSL). For example, user-interface forms are described by using a visual language with elements like text boxes, tables and grids. Below you see tables grouped by category of all the different kinds of documents you can create within a module.

## Common

<table><thead><tr><th class="confluenceTh">Document type</th><th class="confluenceTh">Typical elements</th><th class="confluenceTh">Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td class="confluenceTd"><a href="Domain+Model">Domain Model</a></td><td class="confluenceTd"><a href="Entities">Entities</a>, <a href="Attributes">Attributes</a>, <a href="Associations">Associations</a></td><td class="confluenceTd">The domain model is a data model that describes the information in your application domain in an abstract way. It is central to the architecture of your application.</td></tr><tr><td class="confluenceTd"><a href="Pages">Pages</a></td><td class="confluenceTd"><a href="Data+view">Data view</a>, <a href="Data+grid">Data grid</a>, <a href="Table">Table</a>, <a href="Text+box">Text box</a></td><td class="confluenceTd">Forms are used to create a user interface for the end user. They are composed of components that are called widgets.</td></tr><tr><td class="confluenceTd"><a href="Microflows">Microflows</a></td><td class="confluenceTd"><a href="Activities">Activities</a>, <a href="Sequence+Flow">Sequence Flow</a></td><td class="confluenceTd">Microflows describe the the logic of your application. They are composed of activities that manipulate objects, interact with the client etcetera.</td></tr></tbody></table>

## Resources

<table><thead><tr><th class="confluenceTh">Document type</th><th class="confluenceTh">Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td colspan="1" class="confluenceTd">&nbsp;</td><td colspan="1" class="confluenceTd">&nbsp;</td></tr><tr><td class="confluenceTd"><a href="Constants">Constants</a></td><td class="confluenceTd">Constants are used to define a constant value, for example: to store an URL to a webservice.</td></tr><tr><td class="confluenceTd"><a href="Data+Sets">Data Sets</a></td><td class="confluenceTd">A data set can be used for reporting and is defined using either an OQL query or a custom Java action.</td></tr><tr><td class="confluenceTd"><a href="Document+Templates">Document Templates</a></td><td class="confluenceTd">Document Templates are used to model a template needed as input for a document export action which can generate all kinds of documents based on application data. They are composed much in the same way as Forms.</td></tr><tr><td class="confluenceTd"><a href="Enumerations">Enumerations</a></td><td class="confluenceTd">An enumeration is a set of predefined values, for example: in a webshop, an enumeration called MemberType could have the values Gold and Silver.</td></tr><tr><td class="confluenceTd"><a href="Java+Actions">Java Actions</a></td><td class="confluenceTd">With Java actions you can extend the functionality of your application in situations where it would be hard to implement this functionality in microflows. You can call a Java action from a microflow.</td></tr><tr><td class="confluenceTd"><a href="Regular+Expressions">Regular Expressions</a></td><td class="confluenceTd">A regular expression describes a set of criteria that a string can match.</td></tr><tr><td class="confluenceTd"><a href="Rules">Rules</a></td><td class="confluenceTd">A rule defines a set of criteria, with a certain input the rule will result in a boolean or enumeration depending on the criteria met. It can be called from an exclusive split to determine the direction the microflow should go once the exclusive split is reached.</td></tr><tr><td class="confluenceTd"><a href="Scheduled+Events">Scheduled Events</a></td><td class="confluenceTd">A scheduled event is used to execute a microflow at a certain point in time. You can also schedule it to repeat after a given time. For example, a scheduled event can run every morning at 6 A.M.</td></tr></tbody></table>

## Integration

<table><thead><tr><th class="confluenceTh">Document type</th><th class="confluenceTh">Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td class="confluenceTd"><a href="Domain+to+XML+Mappings">Domain-to-XML Mappings</a></td><td class="confluenceTd">A domain-to-XML mapping defines a translation from domain model objects to XML objects.</td></tr><tr><td class="confluenceTd"><a href="Consumed+Web+Services">Consumed Web Services</a></td><td class="confluenceTd">Importing web services of other applications (Mendix or otherwise) allows you to call those web services from your microflows.</td></tr><tr><td class="confluenceTd"><a href="Published+Web+Services">Published Web Services</a></td><td class="confluenceTd">A microflow can be published as a web service operation so that it can be called by third-party applications.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="1" class="confluenceTd"><a href="Published+App+Services">Published App Services</a></td><td colspan="1" class="confluenceTd">A microflow can be published an an app service action so that it can be consumed by other Mendix applications.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="1" class="confluenceTd"><a href="Published+OData+Services">Published OData Services</a></td><td colspan="1" class="confluenceTd">Persistent entities can be exposed as an OData resource, so that they can be imported by third-party applications such as Excel.</td></tr><tr><td class="confluenceTd"><a href="XML+Schemas">XML Schemas</a></td><td class="confluenceTd">An XML schema is defined in an XML Schema Definition (XSD) file and can be imported in your model. It describes what a certain XML document should look like.</td></tr><tr><td class="confluenceTd"><a href="XML+to+Domain+Mappings">XML-to-Domain Mappings</a></td><td class="confluenceTd">An XML-to-domain mapping defines a translation from XML objects to domain model objects.</td></tr></tbody></table>
