---
title: "9.7 & Above"
category: "Studio"
menu_order: 20
description: "New features, bug fixes, and known issues in Mendix Studio correlated to Mendix Studio Pro versions 9.0 and above."
#If moving or renaming this doc file, implement a temporary redirect and let the respective team know they should update the URL in the product. See Mapping to Products for more details.
#When updating, remember to update the Latest Mendix Releases file.
---

These are the Mendix Studio release notes for apps built with Studio Pro version 9.7 and above. The release notes include all minor versions, patches, and known issues.

{{% alert type="info" %}}
For Studio release notes correlated with the Studio Pro version 9.0–9.6, see [9.0–9.6](9.0-9.6).
{{% /alert %}}

For more information on the correlation between Mendix Studio and Desktop Modeler/Mendix Studio Pro versions, see [Studio Ranges & Mendix Versions](/studio8/general-versions).

For updates on the operational status of Studio as well as deployment features and other Mendix services, see [Mendix Status](https://status.mendix.com/).

## 2022

### March 10th, 2022

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where the dialog box for selecting attributes did not show attributes of associated entities.
* We fixed an issue where the entire breadcrumb in the page editor was selected when clicking on the layout option in the breadcrumb. 
* We fixed an issue where native widget packages were shown in the **Widget Overview** screen. 

### March 7th, 2022

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where newly created demo users required credentials to log into the **Preview** mode. 

### January 24th, 2022

#### New Features

* We added support for [Studio Pro 9.11.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.11#9110).

### January 25th, 2022

#### New Features

* We added support for [Studio Pro 9.10.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.10#9100).

### January 17th, 2022

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where Studio was reloading when a new Mendix Studio version was released.

### January 3rd, 2022 

#### New Features

* We introduced the **Mendix Version & Add-Ons** setting screen where you can upgrade your app to a new version and update add-on modules to a newer version. This gives you a clear overview and helps keep your app up-to-date with the latest Mendix features, security, and bug fixes. For more information, see [Mendix Version & Add-Ons](/studio/settings-version-and-add-ons). 

## 2021

### December 23rd, 2021

#### Fixes 

* We fixed an issue where you could upload an image with a name that differed only by upper or lower case to an existing one and it would cause a consistency error.

### December 17th, 2021

#### New Features

* We added support for [Studio Pro 9.9.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.9#990).

### November 30th, 2021

#### New Features

* We added support for [Studio Pro 9.8.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.8#980).

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where the **Edit in Studio Pro** button was not working in some browsers.

### November 22nd, 2021

#### New Features

* In microflows, we introduced a new activity **Call Microflow**. It allows you to call a microflow from another microflow and reuse logic and return values of the called microflow.  

### October 28th, 2021

#### Improvements

* We improved error messages that might appear on the [Buzz](/studio/collaboration-buzz) tab by making them clearer.
* We added basic support for the new **Send External Object** activity that can be added in Studio Pro. The activity and its properties can be viewed in Studio. 

### October 26th, 2021

#### New Features

* We added support for [Studio Pro 9.7.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.7#970).

