---
title: "2.0"
parent: "2"
---

## 2.0.0

This release introduces a number of breaking changes in the SDK's API, so because of semantic versioning we need to up the major version.

| story# | impact | description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 612773 | High | The mechanics of model elements being contained has been reworked: see below for more details. |
| 634662 | Low | The `toPlainJson` method on elements and units has been renamed to `toJSON`, because e.g. the Chrome Developer Tools understand this to produce nice, human-readably representations of such objects. Rename all usages of `toPlainJson` to `toJSON` to fix your code. |
| 639825 | Low | Broken by-name references are automatically fixed when a target is added to the model again. |
| 637545 | None | Minor internal modifications for upcoming Mendix version 6.3.0. |
| 633932 | None | Added support for long-lived working copies (that are not deleted after 24 hours) to SDK. Note that this is currently **not** available to non-trusted backends! |
| 620108 | None | Removed exported interface `IObservable` from an internal namespace and replaced its use by the one from the `MObservable` library. |
| 631960 | None | Added support for checking deployment status. |
| 623906 | None | Added support for deploying from the SDK. Note that this is currently **not** supported on non-trusted backends! |

The following **breaking** changes are made per 612773 and as a result of new insights on interference between containment and versioning/history of the Mendix modelling language.
This interference leads to elements having different kinds of containment throughout their history.
In turn, this necessitated us to make some fundamental changes to avoid having to have breaking changes in the future.

*   The `container` property is not strictly typed anymore; e.g., `domainmodels.Attribute.container` is not of type `Entity` anymore but of a general `Container` type.
*   Instead, `containerAs<T>` properties of type `T` are introduced on all elements. This property returns the instance of `T` which contains the element or throws if it's not contained by an instance of `T`. To avoid those exceptions, use `container` together with `instanceof`-guards.
*   In case an element is contained by _multiple_ properties (i.e., more than 1), `createIn<T>Under<P>` methods are generated which creates a new element in a given instance of `T` under property `P`. Several previously-existing `createIn` methods have been replaced by a `createIn<T>Under<P>` method, where these `createIn` methods considered only 1 containing property.
*   Elements that are contained by one property in at least one version will have a `createIn` method that works as expected for those versions and throws for other versions.
*   Elements that are always (i.e., in all versions) contained by properties that are derived, will not have any `createIn...` methods.

Dependent code can be easily fixed by using the `containerAs<T>` property instead of the `container` property, and (in a few specific cases) by using a `createIn<T>Under<P>` method instead of the `createIn` method.
