---
title: "Naming Conventions"
category: "Best Practices"
---
# Naming conventions in Mendix 5

_By Marco de Kievit_

This document can be used as a guideline for using proper naming for your application sources. This will help to improve your application's maintainability, and makes it easier to read and understand.

Even with the powerful navigation and find support in the Mendix modeler, adhering to naming conventions is a wise thing:

*   After finishing an application, it is usually handed over to different people for maintenance. A year later they still need to easily understand what you did, and how to improve it.
*   When viewing an existing application, everyone should quickly be able to understand the app, what goes where, and which pieces are related.
*   Avoid spaghetti code by grouping related documents in intuitively named folders.
*   Promote reuse by easily identifying reusable code, and the place where to store reusable code.

**After completing this how-to you will know:**

*   Which conventions we advise for modeler resources that can have multiple purposes.
*   How those conventions can help to improve the readability of your application.

## 1 General conventions

### 1.1 The application development language

The language that will be used to develop the application should be determined upfront. That way you have one language for modules, entities, microflows, pages, etc. The preferred language for development is **_<u>English</u>_**.

There can always be exceptions, with good reasons for why certain parts of an application uses another language. The main exception we see would be in the domain model of an integration module. Think of a technical integration module like an SAP connector. Because SAP is German by origin, the data model would probably use German names. It is important to only make the domain model in German and use the preferred language English for everything else.

### 1.2 Project Name

Every project is to be given a name at start. Make sure that you use a logical name that allows you to easily identify the application. You probably will create more projects in the future, and easily want to recognize this project. We recommend to not include dates or Mendix version numbers in the project name since that information can be captured and extracted in a different way.

### 1.3 Configurations

Every project has at least one configuration. Every project starts with a single configuration called _default._ When you work with multiple users on an application it is beneficial to create multiple configurations. When doing so, use logical names for those configurations like the name of the developer or purpose, like 'Test' and 'Acceptance'.

### 1.4 User roles

The user roles should have logical names that reflect the different types of users that will use the application. The user roles are singular and use a camel-case notation, like 'FunctionalAdministrator'. User roles are mostly defined in English. You can choose to define this in the language of the country, since the user role is visible in the front end.

## 2 Modules

## 2.1 General modules

### 2.1.1 Module names

Modules should be treated as standalone replaceable services, e.g. the customer module should function as much as possible as a standalone customer management system, replaceable by a different customer management system. Module names should have camel-case names on which you can identify the responsibility of the module.

### 2.1.2 Module roles

The modules roles should have logical names that reflect the access they should have within a module. Unlike user roles, module roles should always be in English.

## 2.2 Domain model conventions

### 2.2.1 Entity names

Most of the time an entity reflects a real world object that people can relate to. Therefore the name should make sense to reflect that entity and be recognizable for its purpose. There can always be exceptions to create other types of entities due to project specific needs, but that is up to you. The name of an entity is singular since the entity reflects a single instance of an object. A good example is to use ‘Customer’ as a name, and not ‘Customers’. Furthermore we recommend avoiding abbreviations, underscores, mathematical characters, or any other special characters in the names of entities.

### 2.2.2 Entity attributes

The entity attribute should reflect a property of a real world object that people can relate to, and fits the purpose of that property. There can be exceptions due to project specific needs, but that is up to you. Furthermore we recommend avoiding abbreviations, underscores, mathematical characters or any other special characters in the names.

### 2.2.3 Associations

The associations in the domain model are automatically generated by Mendix. The auto-generated names are good to use by default. If you have multiple associations between the same two entities, we recommend extending the association name. By extending this name with a recognizable part, you will be aware of the purpose of this specific association. E.g. you can have a relation between **Person** and **Address**. A person can have multiple addresses but you want to specify what their postal address and delivery address is. An implementation choice could be that you create two new associations for that purpose and adjust the names of the associations accordingly. I.E. Person_Address_Delivery.

A second recommendation is that, when an association already exists between entities, and you change the name on one or both of the entities, that you will rename the association. Mendix will not do this automatically for you, and this way you will keep your model consistent and up-to-date.

## 2.3 Folders

The structure for your documents starts with a clear separation of folders. When using a decent folder structure you will improve the maintainability of your application, letting you find documents faster and therefore develop and fix faster. We recommend the following guidelines for folder structures.

### 2.3.1 Entity related sources

Every project has documents that are needed for specific entities. Think of overview pages for maintenance, validation microflows that prevent commits, or other event triggers. Those type of documents should be structured into one folder that is named after the entity, where optional sub-folders could be applied to order i.e. events and pages.

### 2.3.2 Process related sources

Every project has processes that are developed, so why not structure your required documents for this process into folders that reflect those processes and their steps.

## 2.4 Microflows

A microflow can be used for a large variety of purposes within your application. To easily find and recognize the purpose for that microflow you can use prefixes. Below we have listed a number of purposes with the related prefixes.

### 2.4.1 Entity events

For some entities you want to use entity events that are always triggered when a specific operation is executed for an entity. Think of a field like ‘TotalOrderAmount’ that is automatically filled based on the amount values of the order related orderlines. An implementation choice can be to define an after commit event that ensures that ‘TotalOrderAmount’ is updated when a related orderline is saved.

| Event type | Prefix |
| --- | --- |
| Before commit | BCO_<Entity name> |
| After commit | ACO_<Entity name> |
| Before create | BCR_<Entity name> |
| After create | ACR_<Entity name> |
| Before delete | BDE_<Entity name> |
| After delete | ADE_<Entity name> |
| Before rollback | BRO_<Entity name> |
| After rollback | ARO_<Entity name> |

### 2.4.2 Calculated Attributes

For attributes you can choose to store the value in the database, or to calculate the value based on a microflow. For the microflow that has the calculation purpose you can use **CAL_** as a prefix.

### 2.4.3 Project Settings

In your project settings you can find 3 events that can trigger a microflow. In these cases we advise writing out the purpose as a microflow name. This microflow is only once defined per project and should preferably call other microflows.

| Event type | Microflow name |
| --- | --- |
| After startup | AfterStartUp |
| Before shutdown | BeforeShutDown |
| Health check | HealthCheck |

### 2.4.4 Pages

Within your pages you have a number of events that can trigger a microflow. See the list below for the examples and prefixes.

| Event type | Prefix | Used in |
| --- | --- | --- |
| On enter event | OEN_<Purpose> | Input widgets |
| On change event | OCH_<Purpose> | Input widgets |
| On leave event | OLE_<Purpose> | Input widgets |
| Data source (list) | DSL_<Purpose> | List view, data grid, template grid |
| Data source (single) | DSS_<Purpose> | Data view |
| Microflow / action button | ACT_<Purpose> | Menu item, Navigation item, Microflow & Action button, Drop down button |

### 2.4.5 Navigation home pages

In your navigation you can define the home pages per device and role. The list below contains recommended microflow names.

| Event type | Device | Microflow name |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Default home page | Desktop | Home_Desktop_Default |
| Default home page | Tablet | Home_Tablet_Default |
| Default home page | Mobile | Home_Phone_Default |
| Role based home page | Desktop | Home_Desktop_<Userrole> |
| Role based home page | Tablet | Home_Tablet_<Userrole> |
| Role based home page | Mobile | Home_Phone_<Userrole> |

### 2.4.6 Integration

In your integrations you have the following type of events.

| Event type | Prefix |
| --- | --- |
| Published webservice operation | WOP_ |
| Published appservice operation | AOP_ |
| Request handlers / Deeplink | HAN_ |
| Request mapping | REQ_ |
| Response mapping | RES_ |
| XML to domain mapping converter | XML_ |
| Domain to XML mapping converter | DOM_ |

### 2.4.7 Scheduled events

For the microflow that you use in your scheduled events recommend using the prefix **SCE_**. 

## 2.5 Pages

### 2.5.1 Home pages

In your navigation you can define the home pages per device and role. The list below contains recommended page names.

| Event type | Device | Page name |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Default home page | Desktop | Home_Desktop_Default |
| Default home page | Tablet | Home_Tablet_Default |
| Default home page | Mobile | Home_Phone_Default |
| Role based home page | Desktop | Home_Desktop_<Userrole> |
| Role based home page | Tablet | Home_Tablet_<Userrole> |
| Role based home page | Mobile | Home_Phone_<Userrole> |

### 2.5.2 Overview pages

Pages that show an overview of a single entity should have a postfix of **_Overview**.

### 2.5.3 New / Edit / View pages

Pages that are used to create, edit, or view entity data and that are not part of a process should have the postfix **_New**, **_Edit**, **_NewEdit** or **_View**.

### 2.5.4 Select pages

Pages that are used to make a selection of one object, have a postfix of **_Select**, where the multi object selection pages should have the postfix **_MultiSelect**.

### 2.5.5 Tooltip pages

Pages that are used as a tooltip page should have the postfix **_Tooltip**.

## 2.6 Other modeler documents

Besides the above mentioned type of modeler documents, we have a huge variety of other documents. We do not have naming conventions for those, since that would not contribute to the readability of the model.

We however do have one exception, enumerations, that could make the life of a developer easier when creating microflow expressions.

The enumeration should start with ENU_.
