---
title: "2.5"
parent: "2"
---

## 2.5.0

**Release date: March 6th, 2018**

### Functions

Core actions lie at the heart of ATS. They anable testers to interact with mendix widgets without having to worry about the widgets' internal structure and function. Naturally, we are constantly looking for ways to improve our core actions. In that regard, we are happy to announce that we designed and developed a completely new architecture for core actions. Because this new architecture is very different from the way actions were implemented in the past we decided to rename core actions to *functions* to make the distinction clearer. The new function architecture will enable us to write functions that are smarter than their core action counterparts. This opens up a lot exciting possibilities for developers. For example, we were able to write *context-aware* Get/Set Value functions. Previously the corresponding core actions could only handle a few widgets. The new functions, on the contrary, support much more widgets, among which are: the boolean slider widget; bootstrap Wysiwyg Editor; CK Editor; Input Reference Selector; Date Picker; Radiobutton List. Furthermore, with the new architecture, functions should be more stable and more reliable. In the future we plan to utilize the new architecture to bring you even more improvements to the functions.

### Improvements

* We added support for Mendix 7.10. You can now test a Mendix application that you've created on Mendix 5.14.1 up to Mendix 7.10.


### Fixes

* When you had a data driven test case, a bug was preventing the usage of the dataset fields as input parameter of assert actions. This is now fixed.
* The PDF report still showed the result category Unknow which was removed from the dashboard some time ago. To keep the reporting consistent between the dashboard and the pdf we removed the category Unknown from the PDF report as well.
* Under rare circumstances the test suite results progress bar, shown on the dashboard, could turn green, even though the percentage of passed test cases was below 100%. This is now fixed and the progress bar will only be green if the percentage of past cases is exactly 100%.
* When recording the 'Click Widget button' action, which is used to click on special listview, templategrid and datagrid buttons such as search, clear, reset etc, the recorded action did not save the information about which button was clicked in the test step. This is now fixed.
* Moving items from one project to another was not possible if the items parent folder/s still existed in another app. This is possible now. Note that although importing items that already exist in another is not allowed, you can circumvent this by 1) copying e.g. a test case from app A, 2) then exporting the copy from app A, 3) deleting the copy from app A, then 4) importing the copy into app B.
* In some rare circumstances importing a complex testset would fail due to an internal error. This is fixed.
* Exporting items which contained empty test steps, for example when a test step was added but no action was selected for this test step, was not possible. Items with empty test steps can now exported.
* A validation check was missing, which allowed users to exece a test case with a data set that has no records. This execution was followed by an error which did not provide much information to end users. We added an extra validation check and improved the message that the user sees.
* While working on a test case, if you added a test step manually after a teardown step, it would sometimes get a wrong step number and a wrong step type (by default it should be teardown). This is now fixed.
* If you relate a dataset to a test case which was previously related to a non existing dataset, an error message was still shown, falsely informing the user that "the old dataset could not be found". Closing and reopening the test case eliminated the error. We fixed this now, so that you do not have to close and reopen the test case to get rid of the error message anymore.
* The application UI was getting generally slower if you used the app for longer periods of time without refreshing your browser tab. We made several improvements related to the performance of the application's UI.

### Other Changes

* When you open ATS, you will now see a new screen that requests your approval to share your Mendix Community Profile information with the ATS application. Every user has to confirm in order to continue using ATS. This needs to be done only once.
* On the dashboard report, we have changed the way the success rate is displayed. Namely, so far the success rate was displayed as percentages (from 0-100). We replaced the percentage with the exact numbers of successfully executed test cases / total test cases. For example, if a test suite has 10 test cases of which 8 pass, previously this was displayed as "80 %", while now it is displayed as "8/10".

### Known Issues

* The grid that shows the jobs on the **Test Runs** page is refreshing every 3 seconds. This can result in a flickering on the highlighted row . If you try to click a button in the exact moment of the refresh, it won't work. The effect is more pronounced on slower computers that take longer to render the refreshed data.
