---
title: "2.6"
parent: "2"
---

## 2.6.0

**Release date: March 27th, 2018**

### Selective reporting

We know that the ability to generate reports is important in order to get an overview of software quality. This is why we are always looking for ways to improve the reporting capabilities of ATS. Starting with this release it is now possible to configure a custom report that only contains test cases and/or test suites that you want to be part of the report. This functionality is available through the dashboard, by clicking the *Download report* button* which opens a dialog with two options for reporting: *All* and *Selected*. When you choose *All* the PDF report contains all test cases and suites in the project, same as the default behavior until now. When you choose *Selected* then you can customize the report by specifying which test cases, test suites and folders should be included in the report. 

### Upgrade Selenium version and support newer browser versions

In order to add support for newer browser version we upgraded the ATS selenium drivers from version 2.53.0 to version 3.8.1. For the supported providers i.e. Browserstack, Saucelabs and Testingbot we set 3.8.1 as selenium version. However, if you have an on-premise selenium grid we advise to update it to selenium version 3.8.1. We also upgraded ATS with support for Chrome version 64 and Firefox version 58, which are now the officially supported browser version. For information of supported providers, platform and browsers combinations take a look at out compatibility table in the [ATS Reference Guide](/ats/refguide/).

### Internet Explorer 11

You can now run ATS tests against Internet Explorer 11. We are happy to announce that, as internet explorer is still one of the most used browsers and even is more important when looking at the enterprise i.e. businesses. Internet explorer 11 is supported for Windows 7, Windows 8.1 and Windows 10.

### Mendix 7.11 & 7.12

Mendix applications which are based on Mendix version 7.11 or 7.12, can now be tested and recorded with ATS. Regarding the newest feature added in Mx7.12, _Nanoflows_, we have not explicitly tested their impact on ATS, although we do not expect any significant problems in this regard.

### Improvements

* You can now see the description of a parameter when hovering the parameter name in an action or function call.
* We added support for the Radiobutton List widget and for the Input Reference Set Selector widget. They can be recorded as well as tested with the standard ATS function.
* We now support the newest macOS version, macOS High Sierra.
* You can now select multiple items in the search dialog by holding down *Ctrl* while clicking on the items. This is possible when: 1) adding a test case/suite to a test suite; 2) adding test cases/suites to a story, and 3) adding stories to a test case/suite.
* A parameter of type text now shows the edit icon also when it is empty.


### Fixes

* The icons of a test case and a test suite were interchanged at the schedules overview. This is fixed now.
* We fixed the issue where the execution type (serial/parallel) of a test suite was always set to serial during the import.
* Dropdown values of a parameter of a custom action where not created during the import, if not a single dropdown value was in use. This has been fixed.
* The color of the not executed test cases was different in the pdf report and on the project dashboard. This is fixed.
* ATS will now wait for the login process to be finished, on a dynamic login pages as well, before continue with the next step.
* We fixed the *Unfocus web element* function.
* We removed the second set value action from the search dialog, when adding a new test step to a test case or action.
* We fixed a bug that sometimes set the selected values in an function/action call empty, when adding a new step to the test case or action.
* Data driven test cases can now be executed, also when the data set contains an empty number. This worked only for empty text fields before.
* Custom actions did not work when used as a pre condition of a test step. This is fixed.

### Known Issues

* When clicking the *Download* button of the newly added Download report dialog before the doughnut chart has finished rendering, the chart will not be shown in the PDF. 
