---
title: "2.9"
parent: "2"
---

## 2.9.0

**Release date: July 10th, 2018**

### Improvements to project roles

#### No access app role

It is now possible to specify that certain members of a project in Sprintr do not get any access to the project in ATS. This can be configured by app administrators from the _App settings_ page. Members of an app that have the _No access_ role will not see this app in their _My apps_ page and will not be able to view or edit or run test cases from this app. Note that _SCRUM Masters_ in Sprintr will always keep the administrator role in ATS.

#### Default app role

We have implemented a functionality to set a default role per app. This role will be applied to new members of the app. The default role can be changed by app administrators under _App settings_. Please note that _SCRUM masters_ in Sprintr will get an administrator role in ATS even if the default role is set to _No access_ or _Tester_.

### On-Premises

We are reintroducing On-Premises as a deployment option for ATS. To this end we introduced a new user role _Tenant administrator_ which will only be used in On-Premises instances of ATS. The tenant administrator will be able to create and edit accounts and apps. Check the [ATS reference guide for more details on tenant administration](./../../ats/refguide/rg-version-2/administration.md).

### Mendix 7.16

Mendix applications which are based on Mendix version 7.16, can now be tested and recorded with ATS.

### Fixes

* Due to a bug it was not possible to export the documentation for test cases/suites which had a description longer than 200 characters. This is now fixed.
* In version 2.8 when clicking on a button that triggered an asynchronous microflows after a confirmation dialog would cause a _Timeout exception while waiting the application to be idle_. 

### Known Limitations

* On Mendix versions 7.13 and upwards it is likely that test will not wait properly for the execution of asynchronous microflows. As a temporary workaround please manually add a _Sleep_ step with a proper duration after triggering asynchronous microflows.
* Regarding _Nanoflows_, we have not explicitly tested their impact on ATS, but so far we have not received issue reports related to them.
