---
title: "9.15"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/9.15/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro 9.15 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
weight: 85
---

## 9.15.1 {#9151}

**Release date: July 14, 2022**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.15.1" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.15.1 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where an offline PWA showed an error and was unable to start when there was no connectivity. (Ticket 153297)
* We fixed an issue where an unsaved document indicator was not visible for documents with a long name.

### Known Issues

* When you navigate between dockable panes using <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Tab</kbd> while in the microflow editor, page editor, or **Properties** pane, releasing <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> does not close the pane-selection dialog box. (Ticket 163193)
    * Fixed in [9.21.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.21/#163193).
* There is a known issue for the scenario where there are multiple instances of the same identical object (meaning, with the same ID) assigned to different microflow variables, this object has a one-to-one association to another entity, and no changes have been made to the associated object. When you then set the association to the same value, only a single microflow variable points correctly to the new association, and the other variables have an empty association. (Ticket 168024)
    * Fixed in [9.18.4](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.18/#168024) and [9.22.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.22/#168024).

## 9.15.0 {#9150}

**Release date: June 30, 2022**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.15.0" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.15.0 from the Marketplace" %}}

{{% alert color="info" %}}For more information on this release, see the [Mendix Release 9.15 – The Summer Checklist](https://www.mendix.com/blog/mendix-release-9-15-the-summer-checklist/) blog post.{{% /alert %}}

### New Features

* We added the **On change behavior** property to the **Text area** widget, which enables selecting how **On change** is handled.
* We added support for one-way navigable associations for users working with OData and [external entities](/refguide9/external-entities/). These allow navigation to associated entities in a single direction – from parent to child. These one-way navigable associations have an icon indicating the type and navigability of associations to the entity properties and the **Add Association** dialog box. These associations also have a special informational banner in the association properties dialog box. Finally, these associations are represented by a dashed arrow in the domain model editor, and there is also an indicator reflecting the direction of its navigability.
* We added the **Annotation** activity to workflows. For more information, see the [General](/refguide9/workflow-elements/#general) section in *Workflows*.
* We added the **Autofocus** property to the [Text Area](/refguide9/text-area/#autofocus) and [Text Box](/refguide9/text-box/#autofocus) native widgets. When set to true, the widget receives the keyboard focus when the page is loaded. 
* We added dark mode support for the **Module Security** dialog box.
* We added new expressions – Subtract Date Functions Calls that allow you subtract a time period from a date and time and return the modified value.
* We added `addQuarters` and `addQuartersUTC` functions to Add Date Function Calls.

### Improvements

#### Performance Improvements

* The performance of editing domain models in large apps has been significantly improved.

#### Other Improvements

* We brought back switching between consequent tabs of the open documents using <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Page&nbsp;up</kbd> and <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Page&nbsp;down</kbd>. As a bonus, it is now also possible to switch to a particular tab using <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>1</kbd>-<kbd>0</kbd> where 1 till 0 is the position of the tab. (Ticket 147599)
* We changed the way error responses for requests to published OData services are formatted. When the client does not specify an `Accept` header, the `Content-Type` is `application/json`, where it used to be `application/xml`.
* We fixed the JSON representation of errors in published OData services. The error code is now a string instead of a number.
* We simplified how to select the metadata from a file or URL for a consumed OData service in Studio Pro.
* Failed workflows can now be aborted.
* We improved the user feedback on the workflow client actions in case the action cannot be performed based on the state of the data. In those cases, a more descriptive (and translatable) pop-up message is shown to the end-user explaining the problem instead of the generic "An error has occurred, please contact your System Administrator" message. The corresponding microflow actions will still throw exceptions in those cases (although the messages are using the same translatable texts).
* MxAssist Logic Bot now always shows a parameterized list for the **Loop through a list**, **Change variable**, and **Create variable** recommendations.

### Fixes

* We fixed [CVE-2022-34466](/releasenotes/security-advisories/#34466).
* We made additional optimizations on top of Studio Pro [9.12](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.12/) to further improve the client performance of data sources returning many items. (Ticket 126837)
* We fixed an error that appeared when closing a dialog box with the {{% icon name="remove" %}} button while changing a grid value. (Ticket 146714)
* We fixed an issue with comparing autonumbers in nanoflows. (Ticket 146737)
* We fixed an issue that occurred when adding an access rule while creating an entity, which caused an invalid consistency error. (Tickets 146865, 150646)
* We fixed a deadlock error that occurred in the task queue for scheduled events when using SQL Server. (Tickets 148524, 149049, 149073, 149354, 149687)
* We fixed a problem where Autonumbers incremented twice if the `DataStorage.QueryPlan` log node was set to `TRACE`. (Ticket 149016)
* We fixed issues where changes in a document did not propagate to documents that were dependent on it. This resulted in error messages not showing up or not disappearing until you ran the app.
* We fixed an issue with the reference selector placeholder color not being correctly set. (Ticket 133479)
* We fixed an issue where the **OK**, **Cancel**, and **Help** buttons were constantly "shaking" in the **App Security** dialog box.
* We fixed an issue where a drop-down list was opening outside the parent dialog box.
* We fixed an issue affecting app deployment, specifically in apps whose microflows used an expression over a system association (such as **System.Owner**).
* We fixed a Runtime exception that occurred when using XPath constraints comparing Boolean expressions (for example, `[(Attr1 > 42) = (Attr2 < 7)]`).
* We fixed an issue where selecting an entity over an association in the data source wizard resulted in a consistency error.

### Known Issues

* When you navigate between dockable panes using <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Tab</kbd> while in the microflow editor, page editor, or **Properties** pane, releasing <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> does not close the pane-selection dialog box. (Ticket 163193)
    * Fixed in [9.21.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.21/#163193).
* There is a known issue for the scenario where there are multiple instances of the same identical object (meaning, with the same ID) assigned to different microflow variables, this object has a one-to-one association to another entity, and no changes have been made to the associated object. When you then set the association to the same value, only a single microflow variable points correctly to the new association, and the other variables have an empty association. (Ticket 168024)
    * Fixed in [9.18.4](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.18/#168024) and [9.22.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.22/#168024).
