---
title: "9.16"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/9.16/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro version 9.16 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
weight: 84
---

## 9.16.1 {#9161}

**Release date: August 5, 2022**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.16.1" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.16.1 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where offline-first PWAs and native apps were prevented from starting because of a failed start-up synchronization due to incompatible domain model changes. To prevent data loss, all incompatible objects including files will be synchronized as `System.SynchronizationError` objects.

### Known Issues

* When you navigate between dockable panes using <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Tab</kbd> while in the microflow editor, page editor, or **Properties** pane, releasing <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> does not close the pane-selection dialog box. (Ticket 163193)
    * Fixed in [9.21.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.21/#163193).
* There is a known issue for the scenario where there are multiple instances of the same identical object (meaning, with the same ID) assigned to different microflow variables, this object has a one-to-one association to another entity, and no changes have been made to the associated object. When you then set the association to the same value, only a single microflow variable points correctly to the new association, and the other variables have an empty association. (Ticket 168024)
    * Fixed in [9.18.4](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.18/#168024) and [9.22.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.22/#168024).

## 9.16.0 {#9160}

**Release date: July 29, 2022**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.16.0" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.16.0 from the Marketplace" %}}

{{% alert color="info" %}}For more information on this release, see the [Mendix Release 9.16 – Making Sense of Data with Mendix](https://www.mendix.com/release/mendix-release-9-16-making-sense-of-data-with-mendix/) blog post.{{% /alert %}}

### New Features

* MxAssist Performance Bot can now be run from the cross-platform [mx command-line tool](/refguide9/mx-command-line-tool/) via `mx check --performance`.
* We added the new best practice **MXP015** for MxAssist Performance Bot: [Order XPath Parts Around AND: Cheapest and Most-Specific Parts First](/refguide9/performance-best-practices/#mxp015). This best practices finds XPaths that are not optimally ordered around their `and` statements or their `[]` parts.
* Workflows can now be instantly updated for any change made to the workflow, similar to the instant update of pages. 

### Improvements

#### Performance Improvements

* We improved the issue where the initial focus of a dialog box occurred too late after (for example, after you had already selected another control to edit), which meant the selection was lost. (Ticket 144438)
* Finding usages of documents and elements (for example, entities, attributes, and enumeration values) is now significantly faster. This should be especially noticeable when working with large apps.
* When adding new elements (for example, modules, documents, entities, and attributes) to very large apps, Studio Pro is now more responsive.
* We have improved the performance of switching between editors when the **Toolbox** is not visible.
* The performance of editing domain models in large apps has been significantly improved.
* We have improved the responsiveness of the search in **Go to** dialog box.
* We have reduced the memory consumption of Studio Pro when working with a large number of pages in **Design mode**.

#### Other Improvements

* We made additional optimizations on top of version [9.12](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.12/) to further improve the client performance of data sources returning many items. (Ticket 126837)
* In the import mapping, created objects are now stored in the runtime state. When performing a retrieve activity in **Find by key** or **Call a microflow** within the import mapping, these objects are included in the result.
* We added a preview width for layout grids in the page editor. This width is only used for the visualization inside **Structure mode** and does not affect the width in the running app. It can be useful when the automatically calculated sizes of columns are not representative enough, especially when they are set to **Auto-fill** or **Auto-fit content**.
* External entities are now selectable as a **WorkflowContext** entity.
* Non-persistable entities are now excluded from the MxAssist Performance Bot **MXP014** recommendation.
* We improved MxAssist Logic Bot behavior when there is a network issue by reducing the number of network calls attempted.

### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where the usage of an enumeration value was not found when used as a default value or as a part of a sequence flow. (Tickets 99092, 108104)
* We fixed an issue where retrieving associated objects did not return any objects after import mapping when the associated objects were not committed. (Ticket 126464)
* We fixed an issue where merging in a branch with a different set of languages did not update the language selector in the status bar. (Ticket 133651)
* We fixed an issue where a search for XPaths (via **Find Advanced** > **XPath**) did not always find all of them. (Ticket 144720)
* We now hide the auto-completion pop-up window of text editors when the containing dialog box is resized, moved, or deactivated by the user (meaning, the user switches to a different application, such as the browser). (Ticket 145062)
* We fixed an issue where the import object mapping returned the wrong exception when the data or security validation failed. (Ticket 146620)
* We fixed an issue where adding an access rule while creating an entity caused an invalid consistency error. (Tickets 146865, 150646)
* We fixed an issue where changes in **Properties** were not recognized after clicking **Run Locally**. (Ticket 147385)
* We fixed the tab navigation behavior in data grids. (Ticket 147578)
* We fixed an issue where Studio Pro froze after long usage. (Ticket 148287)
* We fixed an issue in consumed web services using WS-Addressing. Mendix Runtime now also sends the `MessageID`, `ReplyTo`, and `To` fields in the SOAP header. (Ticket 148522)
* We fixed an issue where the **Limit to current tab** option on the **Errors** pane impacted the **Limit to current tab** option on the **Find Results** pane. (Ticket 151088)
* We fixed an issue with Team Server Git deployments. (Tickets 151107, 152169, 152222, 152672)
* We fixed an issue where **Date/time** and **Log node** columns were not resizable in the **Console** pane and the console log. (Ticket 152104)
* We fixed an issue where an offline PWA showed an error and was unable to start when there was no connectivity. (Ticket 153297)
* We fixed an issue in Studio Pro where clicking **Cancel** on the credentials pop-up window for downloading a consumed OData service's metadata showed an error message.
* We fixed an issue where module roles disappeared after re-opening and canceling the **Module Security** dialog box.
* We fixed an issue in XPath constraints on external entities that had a non-filterable key. XPath constraints filtering on those IDs now throw a consistency error.
* We fixed an issue where in restricted markets, Studio Pro still tried to send analytics.
* We fixed an issue where changing the `selectableObjects` attribute of an association property in the XML definition of a pluggable widget did not require the widget to be updated, causing the widget to misbehave in the client.
* We fixed an issue where an error during file retrieval caused Mendix Runtime to close the connection before sending an error response.
* We fixed an issue where MxAssist Performance Bot displayed an incorrect total count in a panel icon when some recommendations had been suppressed.
* We fixed an issue where read-only text controls received focus on tab navigation.
* We fixed an issue where changes to the page layout of a workflow admin page and a user task page were not applied after an instant update of the page changes.
* We fixed an issue with the MxAssist Performance Bot **MXP013** best practice where some access rules caused the inspection to end without outputting results.
* We fixed the tab navigation behavior in tree controls.
* We changed the order in which published and consumed service types appear when you are about to add them in Studio Pro. 
* We fixed an issue where selecting an entity over an association in the data source wizard resulted in a consistency error.

### Deprecations

* We deprecated `IDataTable.getRows().clear()`.

### Breaking Changes

* We added a new consistency check that shows an error when a widget contains conditional visibility settings for [module roles](/refguide9/module-security/#module-role) that are not in the same module. This can happen when a document (for example, a page, layout, or snippet) has been moved to another module, but it contains widgets that are set to be only visible for selected module roles. Moving such a document creates hidden module dependencies, which results in an unsupported state. To fix the error, the widget visibility needs to be updated by reselecting the allowed roles in the visibility settings. Note that if you upgrade to this version of Studio Pro, you may see the results of this consistency check without changing anything in your app. This is simply because the check was not present in previous versions.

### Known Issues

* When you navigate between dockable panes using <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Tab</kbd> while in the microflow editor, page editor, or **Properties** pane, releasing <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> does not close the pane-selection dialog box. (Ticket 163193)
    * Fixed in [9.21.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.21/#163193).
* There is a known issue for the scenario where there are multiple instances of the same identical object (meaning, with the same ID) assigned to different microflow variables, this object has a one-to-one association to another entity, and no changes have been made to the associated object. When you then set the association to the same value, only a single microflow variable points correctly to the new association, and the other variables have an empty association. (Ticket 168024)
    * Fixed in [9.18.4](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.18/#168024) and [9.22.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.22/#168024).
