---
title: "9.17"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/9.17/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro 9.17 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
weight: 83
---

## 9.17.1 {#9171}

**Release date: September 14, 2022**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.17.1" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.17.1 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where updating the **Toolbox** of the microflow editor in the background failed with an error.

### Known Issues

* When you navigate between dockable panes using <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Tab</kbd> while in the microflow editor, page editor, or **Properties** pane, releasing <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> does not close the pane-selection dialog box. (Ticket 163193)
    * Fixed in [9.21.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.21/#163193).
* There is a known issue for the scenario where there are multiple instances of the same identical object (meaning, with the same ID) assigned to different microflow variables, this object has a one-to-one association to another entity, and no changes have been made to the associated object. When you then set the association to the same value, only a single microflow variable points correctly to the new association, and the other variables have an empty association. (Ticket 168024)
    * Fixed in [9.18.4](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.18/#168024) and [9.22.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.22/#168024).

## 9.17.0 {#9170}

**Release date: August 31, 2022**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.17.0" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.17.0 from the Marketplace" %}}

{{% alert color="info" %}}For more information on this release, see the [Mendix Release 9.17 – A Lot of Activity](https://www.mendix.com/blog/mendix-release-9-17-a-lot-of-activity/) blog post.{{% /alert %}}

### New Features

* We added the ability to [link an association property to a data source](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/pluggable-widgets-property-types/#datasource). This allows an association property to access values from a list of objects instead of the context object of the widget, similar to linked attribute properties. We have also enhanced the [filtering API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/pluggable-widgets-client-apis-list-values/#listvalue-filtering) for data sources to support associations. When combined with the association property's [selectableObjects](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/pluggable-widgets-property-types/#xml-attributes) attribute, this feature enables widget developers to build powerful filtering options for data sources based on an association's value.
* We introduced a mechanism for app users to change the state of running workflows. It enables running workflows to jump to different activities, which are selected by the user. It also enables users to fix workflows in an incompatible state (for instance, when a current activity has been removed). For this functionality, we introduced the **System.WorkflowJumpToDetails**, **System.WorkflowCurrentActivity**, and **System.WorkflowActivityDetails** entities in addition to the [Generate jump-to options](/refguide9/generate-jump-to-options/) and [Apply jump-to option](/refguide9/apply-jump-to-option/) microflow activities. You need the [Workflow Commons](/appstore/modules/workflow-commons/) module version 2.3.0 or above to use this functionality. For more information, see [Jumping to Different Activities in a Workflow](/refguide9/jump-to/).
* We have extended OData capabilities in Studio Pro, allowing you to [wrap services, APIs, and databases with OData](/refguide9/wrap-services-odata/) and making it easier to [build connectors](/appstore/creating-content/connector-guide-build/) that access external data. The OData services can then be easily discovered and used in the [Catalog](/catalog/). The new features include the ability to [publish non-persistable entities as OData resources](](/refguide9/wrap-services-odata/#npe-published-odata), and to [use microflows to define how resources should be retrieved and stored](/refguide9/wrap-services-odata/#odata-data-sources). We also provide an [OpenAPI](/refguide9/published-odata-services/#openapi) contract to easily [test published OData resources](/refguide9/wrap-services-odata/#testing).
* In the App Explorer's [styling node](/howto9/front-end/customize-styling-new/#styling-editor) we added file and folder operations such as create, rename, and delete. Simply right-click a file or folder to see the available options.
* You now can define Java action parameters as optional instead of required. Optional parameters can be left empty when using your Java action in a microflow. This could be useful, for example, when you want to build a Java action to send messages where the `To` field is required, but the `Cc` field can be left empty.

### Improvements

#### Performance Improvements

* We have optimized editing performance in the domain model when using custom images for entities. Entity images are now selected from the disk rather than from an image collection, and they have got stricter dimensions and format requirements (64x64 PNG). A previously selected entity image can be optimized automatically by right-clicking the deprecation in the **Errors** pane.
* We have resolved a memory leak and optimized memory usage for text editors and various text controls (for example, the multi-line text box). Memory is now properly released upon closing the dialog box that contains those controls.
* We have also resolved a memory leak and optimized memory usage for dialog boxes containing the grid control (for example, the **Access Rules** dialog box).
* When working with large apps, Studio Pro is now more responsive when doing the following:
    * Finding unused items
    * Renaming or deleting domain model elements
    * Finding externally used microflows and nanoflows
* We have improved the performance of resizing dialog boxes that contain the expression and XPath editors.
* We reduced a delay that occurred when collapsing a node in a tree (for example, in the App Explorer).
* We made saving all documents via closing all tabs, closing your app, or using **Save All** faster.
* We have significantly improved responsiveness when switching between editors.

#### Other Improvements

* Nanoflow calls with an unused return value now result in a warning. (Ticket 152208)
* We adjusted MxAssist Performance Bot best practice [MXP014](/refguide9/performance-best-practices/#mxp014) to be more conservative when recommending and with improved loop support.
* We removed the option for the old **My Apps** from the **Preference** settings.
* We upgraded the embedded database HSQLDB to version 2.7.0.
* We upgraded PostgreSQL driver to version 42.4.1.
* When object IDs are created at a high rate, they are now reserved in batches larger than the regular size of 100.
* Dialog box title bars now have unified behavior (for example, disabled buttons are hidden) and appearance in both light and dark modes (only the colors are different).
* Microflow parameters are now automatically named when you drag them into the working area.
* We added the **Move up** and **Move down** buttons to the **Entity Access Rules** and **Module Security** > **Entity Access** tabs.
* You can now indicate whether published OData resources are countable or not.
* Studio Pro now provides an OpenAPI contract for published OData services.
* We added an option to the [mx check](/refguide9/mx-command-line-tool/#check) command of the mx tool to use an exported suppressed-warnings file instead of the local app settings.
* We added a consistency check on the use of reference sets in the association property of a pluggable widget, which is not supported in an offline profile.
* A custom image for an entity can now be selected from disk instead of an image collection.

### Fixes

* We introduced a workaround for a decimal-pad keyboard-disabled comma issue in Samsung devices that allows you to type a dot that will be replaced by a comma if the locale uses a comma as the decimal separator. (Tickets 116581, 155339)
* We fixed an issue where images in import and export mapping documents were not shown as thumbnails. (Ticket 120289)
* We fixed an issue where deploying an app crashed because of the presence of certain SVG images. (Tickets 137710, 124792, 129288, 133070)
* We fixed an issue where duplicated entries were being generated in the `WorkflowUserTaskDefinition` system table. (Ticket 140353)
* We fixed an issue that caused unnecessary warning pop-up windows to appear in the Make it Native app when running in **Structure mode**. (Ticket 148162)
* We fixed an issue where it was no longer possible to import an XML schema file with Windows-1252 encoding. (Ticket 150833)
* We fixed an issue where a microflow action property dialog box opened via the keyboard was immediately closed. (Ticket 152306)
* We fixed an issue where closing the dialog box while editing an entity within a published REST service activated the REST service pane. (Ticket 152412). 
* We fixed an issue with microflows that were using a [Call REST service](/refguide9/call-rest-action/) activity but not storing the result in a variable. (Ticket 152439)
* We fixed an issue for the native mobile platform in which a list view widget that had an XPath data source configured with an entity path over an association did not correctly apply the constraint (or constraints). (Ticket 153011)
* We fixed an issue that occurred with the [pow expression](/refguide9/mathematical-function-calls/#pow) in a nanoflow when the exponent was not an integer number. (Ticket 153289)
* We fixed an issue where importing multiline values in **Import from Excel** of **Batch Translate** returns error "source not found". (Ticket 153290)
* We fixed an issue where decimal values were displayed in exponential notation (for example, 0E-8). (Ticket 153332)
* We made offline synchronization resilient to file documents with broken or no content on the server. Previously, such file objects caused the entire synchronization to fail. The client now ignores and excludes such objects from synchronization. (Ticket 153344)
* We fixed an issue where a reference selector as the first input element on a page was not focused when the page was first loaded. (Ticket 153456)
* Equality and inequality comparisons in XPath and OQL now work symmetrically. (Ticket 153729)
* We fixed an issue where pinned client certificates were not correctly initialized. (Ticket 153824, 162332)
* We fixed an issue that caused a list view with an XPath data source to show incorrect results if it used variables in its XPath constraint and a controlling custom widget (for example, List View Controls or Auto-Load More) was present on the same page. We improved the consistency check on the use of XPath variables to disallow this combination, but only if the custom widget is actually controlling that specific list view. (Ticket 154306)
* We fixed an issue that caused the properties of a custom widget to appear in the wrong order after updating the widget. (Ticket 154455)
* We fixed an issue where the temporary files used for image rotation were not closed. (Ticket 154992)
* We fixed an issue where `mx.ui.back()` was no longer working. (Ticket 155179)
* We fixed an issue in published OData services where resources using pagination and clients using `/$query` syntax with `$skip` and `$top` resulted in the wrong objects being returned. (Ticket 155302)
* We fixed an issue where custom widgets did not load when they had an override for the base URL with the `appbase` option in `dojoConfig`. (Ticket 162168)
* We fixed an issue in published REST services where Mendix Runtime responded with XML to clients requesting `Accept: */*` or `Accept: application/*`. Mendix Runtime now responds with JSON to such requests.
* We fixed an issue where, in a multinode environment, a unique constraint violation resulted in the wrong error message.
* We fixed an issue regarding startup synchronization in offline-first PWA and native apps where we made the startup synchronization more resilient against object changes that are no longer compatible with new domain model changes. This prevents app startup from failing when such an incompatibility is detected and thus provides a better user experience. To prevent data loss, the incompatible objects are synchronized to Mendix Runtime as `System.SynchronizationError` objects (with the corresponding files, if any), and the app's admins can process and restore the data if they wish.
* We fixed an issue where the workflow editor did not open when a workflow-related consistency error was clicked in the in the **Errors** pane.
* We fixed an issue where calling a microflow with **Apply entity access** enabled in the background failed if retries were used.
* We fixed an issue where enabling entity access on a generated data source for a microflow on a task page threw an exception.
* We fixed an issue that occurred in native mobile apps where clicking **Save** sent un-editable objects to be committed.
* We fixed an issue that occurred when copying and pasting data from a grid where rows that were not visible were not copied.
* We fixed an issue where end-user changes were not immediately reflected on a page after a refresh (for example, language changes).
* We re-added the **For Each** and **While** [loop type](/refguide9/loop/#loop-type) property names for microflow actions in the logging. These are `ListLoop` and `WhileLoop`, respectively.
* We fixed an issue in workflows where an enumeration-based decision with an empty option failed if the empty path was not the last position.
* We fixed an issue where a pop-up layout-based completed user task was still visible in the task inbox.
* We fixed an issue where the app-level on-state-change handlers for a workflow were not run for the workflow instances in which the workflow definition was removed from the app (and also not when those incompatible workflows were aborted after that).
* We fixed an issue where the Mendix Runtime attribution report was generating an empty file.

### Known Issues

* When you navigate between dockable panes using <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Tab</kbd> while in the microflow editor, page editor, or **Properties** pane, releasing <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> does not close the pane-selection dialog box. (Ticket 163193)
    * Fixed in [9.21.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.21/#163193).
* There is a known issue for the scenario where there are multiple instances of the same identical object (meaning, with the same ID) assigned to different microflow variables, this object has a one-to-one association to another entity, and no changes have been made to the associated object. When you then set the association to the same value, only a single microflow variable points correctly to the new association, and the other variables have an empty association. (Ticket 168024)
    * Fixed in [9.18.4](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.18/#168024) and [9.22.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.22/#168024).
