---
title: "9.19"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/9.19/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro version 9.19 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
weight: 81
#KI: "When you navigate between dockable panes" - SPX-2661
---

## 9.19.0 {#9190}

**Release date: October 25th, 2022**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "9.19.0" %}}

### New Features

* We introduced a Java API to interact with the Workflow Engine. See the javadocs for details.
* We added a new workflow activity `Call Workflow` that allows the user to call a sub-workflow from within a workflow. This allows users to split their workflows in smaller reusable workflows.

### Improvements

#### Performance Improvements

* We resolved several event leaks caused by menu items and UI element identifiers.
* When working with large apps, errors checking process should happen faster.
* The splash screen is shown earlier after starting Studio Pro.
* We have optimized **Toolbox** performance when using custom images for exposed actions. Previously selected exposed action images can be optimized automatically by right-clicking a deprecation in the **Errors** pane.

#### Other Improvements

* We have improved the way we handle the completion of workflow user tasks. Selection of a specific user task is no longer required when selecting an outcome. This way both the microflow action and the client action **Complete user task** can be reused for different user tasks that share the same outcomes.
* We have revamped the window that allows you to select which attribute and associations will be exposed from published web services' parameters and return entities. This now supports dark mode.
* We are now supporting resizing in the App Security dialog.
* We added Move up and Move down buttons to Entity Access rules and Module Security Entity Access tab.
* Studio Pro now provides an OpenApi contract for published OData services.
* We added an option to 'mx check' to use an exported suppressed-warnings file instead of the local project settings.
* We improved the way published OData services return error messages. They now include a list with error details, that provide more information on which specific properties caused the error(s).
* We added 3 metrics to the Runtime Server Task Queue:
  * `mx.runtime.stats.taskqueue.queue-wait-time` (with tag `queue` as queue name), timing the time between task creation (or scheduling) and pickup of the task for execution
  * `mx.runtime.stats.taskqueue.queue-active-threads` (with tag `queue` as queue name), gauging the amount of active queue threads over time
  * `mx.runtime.stats.taskqueue.task-execution-time` (with tag `queue` as queue name, `task` as task name), timing the execution time for a task
* We've made it possible for you to configure the default editing mode for pages. You can now go to the preferences of Studio Pro, and on the 'Work Environment' tab choose whether the page editor should open Structure mode or Design mode by default.
* You can now choose more than one key attribute for a published OData resource.
* In the list of attributes/associations for published OData resources in Studio Pro, we removed the 'Part of key' column and replaced it with a key icon.
* Performance Bot Best Practice MXP014 now presents recommendations grouped by Microflow and also by Entity. This allows for suppression by Entity as opposed to suppressing the entire microflow.
* Performance Bot is not blocks UI anymore.
* We added Duplicate button in Generate Validation Microflow form
* We extended the list of supported buttons for Validation Assist. Now a validation microflow can be generated for Button as well as for Save button and Call microflow button.
* We now show consumed OData services on the Data Hub Pane regardless if you are logged in or logged out.

### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where re-uploading a file after changing it's content wouldn't reflect and would rather upload the unchanged version. (Ticket 164543 and 153955)
* We fixed an issue where published OData services would return error messages from microflows in an incorrect JSON format.
* We fixed an inconsistency in the error codes that are returned by published OData services.
* We fixed an issue where keyboard shortcuts were not working in **Properties** pane.
* We fixed an issue where Performance Bot could sometimes show stale recommendations, instead of clearing out its list.
* We fixed `MendixBinary.storeValue` when the binary attribute is a member of a generalization. (Ticket 162481)
* We fixed an issue where the error message in the expression editor would not wrap when becoming too long for the editor.
* We fixed an issue in published OData services, where services using OData version 3 would show that they had an OpenApi contract. OpenApi contracts for OData services are only for OData version 4.
* We fixed an issue in published OData services where POST and PATCH requests on subpaths would be accepted. Now a request like `PATCH /Products(1)/Category(2)` is always rejected, because `PATCH` requests over associations are not supported.
* We fixed an issue an unhandled client error crashes the native mobile apps, causing them to close immediately. Now such errors will trigger an alert with a description and options to either restart or close the app.
* We fixed an issue where, in some situations, conditional visible input widgets inside a snippet were incorrectly hidden when the snippet was used multiple times on a page. (Ticket 151997)
* We fixed an issue when trying to debug Swagger UI served as interactive REST documentation by the runtime. The javascript and css files refer to a source map. Now the runtime serves that source map as well.
* We fixed an issue where the attribution report was generating an empty file.
* We fixed an issue where an error popup message would be shown instead of a validation feedback message on the widget displaying the invalid attribute. This happened when the widget was inside a list data widget which was reloaded at the same time the validation feedback was received. (Ticket 145008)
* We fixed an issue where selection in a data grid or a tree controls does not reset if the user selects multiple rows and clicks on the same row that had the selection earlier.
* We fixed an issue when a non-editable cell in a data grid might get focused on tab navigation.
* We fixed an issue in published OData resources where publishing a non-persistable entity without a read microflow would not show a consistency error but cause a runtime error.
* We fixed an issue which was causing DataView's to attempt to refetch it's data source even after the unmount. (Ticket 152380)
* We fixed an error that appeared when a dialog showed a validation error after closing.
* We fixed an issue where the reference selector makes an unnecessary request when one of the parameters of the selectable objects data source is empty. (Ticket 140056)
* We added back type names for the 'for each' and 'while' loop microflow actions in the logging. These are 'ListLoop' and 'WhileLoop' respectively.
* We fixed an issue in external entities that have keys consisting of more than one attribute, where if the service returned those attributes in a different order than the app expected, it would store them in that order.
* We fixed an issue which caused a list view with an XPath data source to show incorrect results if it used variables in its XPath constraint and a controlling custom widget (ListViewControls, AutoLoadMore or GridSearch) was present on the same page. We improved the consistency check on the use of XPath variables to disallow this combination, but only if the custom widget is actually controlling that specific list view. (Ticket 154306)
* We fixed an issue where custom widgets wouldn't load when having an override for the base URL with the "appbase" option in "dojoConfig". (Ticket 162168)
* We fixed an issue where historical dates that were stored in a non-localized date attribute could be off by several seconds in certain timezones. (Ticket 165972)
* We fixed an issue for a workflow in which enumeration based decision with empty option fail if the empty path is not the last position
* We fixed an issue where XML schema validation failed when there is a XML Schema import Element in the schema file. (Ticket 152436 & 148726)
* We fixed an issue where Toolbox scrolling in Tile Mode exhibits irregular behaviour.
* We fixed an issue where the minus sign wouldn't display when using Arabic languages. (Ticket 144779)
* We fixed an issue in the documentation served by the runtime (e.g. `/rest-doc`), where the font defined in the stylesheet would not load.
* We fixed a scrolling issue for the 'GridControl', noticed mostly for the 'Console' log grid: Scrolling is not reset to the top of the grid anymore. (Ticket 163587, 163629).
* We fixed the issue in the 'Open App' dialog that branch lines would not be displayed correctly for apps that were created with an older version of Studio Pro.
* We fixed a couple of small issues where the user's avatar image (or a default image when the user doesn't have an avatar) would not show correctly after signing in.
* We fixed an issue where the justifyCenter design property did not work with the Scroll Container native widget. The design property now works with the widget. (Ticket 145729)
* We fixed an issue where system members (such as 'owner', 'changedBy', 'createdDate' and 'changedDate') could not be selected on 'Filter' and 'Find' list operations in a microflow (Ticket 151436)
* We fixed an issue with generate expression for changing an association on an object. (Ticket 163183)
* We fixed an issue where documents would be renamed unnecessarily when copying or moving them from one module to another.
* We fixed an issue where the periodic updating of sessions would give exceptions. (Ticket 162216)
* We fixed an issue where uploaded images are not rotated in the upright position based on orientation information in image metadata. (Ticket 155278)
* We fixed an issue where the error style did not work with the Reference Selector, Date Picker and Drop-Down native widgets. (Ticket 130360)
* We fixed an issue where Import Mapping with JSON and using Custom Range would not take into account the specified Amount. (Ticket 132368)
* We fixed an issue where Range value was not taken into account when importing JSON with Import mapping action. (Ticket 132368)
* We fixed an issue where Logic Bot fails to create Delete Object recommendation for an old microflow that has duplicate variable names.
* We fixed an 'ObjectDisposedException' that happened occasionally upon closing the 'Entity' dialog. 
* We fixed an issue which caused incorrect sorting behaviour on external entities from a consumed OData service, when trying to order by an associated property.
* We upgraded OpenJDK to 11.0.16.1+1 in the Studio Pro installer. (Ticket 164386)
* Applying the OQL ROUND function to an expression of Decimals now returns a BigDecimal instead of a Double. (Ticket 162214)
* We fixed concatenating multiple strings with non-strings using the + operator in OQL.
* We've made the 'Edit Template Parameter' dialog resizable again.
* We fixed an issue where runtime reports errors related to Amazon S3 storage even though the application is not using Amazon S3 storage backend. (Ticket 166921)
* We fixed an issue where Studio Pro would show an error message when clicking the magnifying glass icon in the Find Results table.
* We fixed an issue where a machine name with non-ASCII chars would block the user from sign-in. (Ticket 165552)

### Known Issues

* When you navigate between dockable panes using <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Tab</kbd> while in the microflow editor, page editor, or **Properties** pane, releasing <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> does not close the pane-selection dialog box. (Ticket 163193)
    * Workaround: Use <kbd>Enter</kbd> or a mouse click to close the dialog box. 
