---
title: "9.20"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/9.20/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro version 9.20 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
weight: 80
#KI: "When you navigate between dockable panes" - SPX-2661
---

## 9.20.0 {#9200}

**Release date: November 29th, 2022**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.20.0" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.20.0 from the Marketplace" %}}

### New Features



## {{PATCH_VERSION}}

### New Features

[//]: # (Include links/references to Idea Forum ideas when available.)

#### {Major new feature specifically named in heading}

### Improvements
* Validation Assist provides 'more than zero' check as well as non empty check by default for 'Submit button' validation.
* Validation Assist supports expressions for Validation Message.
* Validation Assist supports snippets for validation.

* We added 'Exposed to client' column to the Find Results when finding usages of the Constant.
* We added 'Used from Module' column to the Find Results when finding usages of other user modules by Module.
* We updated question dialogs to be able to close when hitting the 'Esc' button. 

* The Send and Delete External Object activities now use the Accept-Language http header to communicate the user's preferred language to the server.

- Retrieving an attribute from an empty variable in a nanoflow now returns an empty variable instead of throwing an error. This means that nanoflows are more consistent with microflows. (Ticket 153138)
* Layouts and Page Templates can now be editted using Design Mode.

* In Studio Pro, the toolbar shown at the top of the page editor now features a button to configure the parameters of the page.
* Now validation feedback from OData's insert/update/delete microflows is translated into language provided in `Accept-Language`

* Performance Bot now automatically runs an inspection when an app is opened. This behavior can be disabled via the Edit | Preferences menu.
* We've added more control to the **Show user task page** Microflow action and button. It is now possible to configure if the action should automatically assign the current user to the task. Secondly, you can now control who is allowed to open the task page when a task is already assigned: only the user currently assigned, or all users with access to the task.

* When selecting a team server app from the App Selector that is not locally on disk, the dialog to choose the disk location when downloading the app will always be shown to the user.

- We've made it possible to select multiple widgets on a page at the same time, allowing to move or copy them in one go.
* we added a new setting to the Preferences dialog that allows you to change the default location where new apps will be created.

[//]: # (Include links/references to Idea Forum ideas when available.)

* We added the option to export workflow models as an image.

#### Performance Improvements
* We improved the performance of switching tabs.
* We resolved several event leaks caused by styling buttons.

#### {Major improvement specifically named in heading}

#### Other Improvements
* Performance Bot inspection can be cancelled from the status bar.
* We optimized Performance Bot Best Practices MXP003 and MXP015. This can reduce inspection times on more complex apps.

* In published OData services, the list of entities and the list of entity details now have the same width.
* The example URL for published OData services and web services is now the sandbox cloud URL when the app is running there.

* We upgraded to HSQLDB 2.7.1. As a result Java functions can no longer be registered in the database.
* We improved the alignment of the controls on the published OData resource dialog in Studio Pro.
* We optimized Performance Bot Best Practices MXP001, MXP003, MXP007 and MXP015. This can reduce inspection times on more complex apps.
* We made all properties dialogs resizable.

* We've added an indicator to the Page Explorer for conditional visibility and conditional editability.
* We extended the configuration module API for pluggable widgets. We now pass the Studio Pro version to the 'GetPreview' function so that it's possible to create structure mode previews based on the Studio Pro version.

### Fixes
* We fixed an issue where re-uploading a file after changing it's content wouldn't reflect and would rather upload the unchanged version. (Ticket 164543 and 153955)
* We fixed an issue where published OData services would return error messages from microflows in an incorrect JSON format.
* We fixed an inconsistency in the error codes that are returned by published OData services.

* We fixed an issue where keyboard shortcuts were not working in **Properties** pane.

* We fixed an issue where Performance Bot could sometimes show stale recommendations, instead of clearing out its list.
* We fixed an issue where Inspect Now button in Performance Bot was disabled if errors were found during inspection.

* We fixed `MendixBinary.storeValue` when the binary attribute is a member of a generalization. (Ticket 162481)
* We fixed an issue where the error message in the expression editor would not wrap when becoming too long for the editor.

* We fixed an issue in published OData services, where services using OData version 3 would show that they had an OpenApi contract. OpenApi contracts for OData services are only for OData version 4.
* We fixed an issue in published OData services where POST and PATCH requests on subpaths would be accepted. Now a request like `PATCH /Products(1)/Category(2)` is always rejected, because `PATCH` requests over associations are not supported.

* We fixed an issue an unhandled client error crashes the native mobile apps, causing them to close immediately. Now such errors will trigger an alert with a description and options to either restart or close the app.
* We fixed an issue where the style of the page was not removed when navigating to a new page. (Ticket 170960)

* We made the dialog to edit a published REST resource slightly larger, so the documentation text area shows fully without having to resize the dialog first.

* We fixed an issue where, in some situations, conditional visible input widgets inside a snippet were incorrectly hidden when the snippet was used multiple times on a page. (Ticket 151997)

* We fixed an issue when trying to debug Swagger UI served as interactive REST documentation by the runtime. The javascript and css files refer to a source map. Now the runtime serves that source map as well.

* We fixed an issue in Studio Pro where dropping a microflow onto a published REST resource would create a new resource rather than creating a new operation within the resource.

* We fixed an issue where the Swagger UI provided by published REST services would have non-functioning Execute buttons. This was solved by changing the published `swagger.json` document to include the correct parameter type for List or Object parameters, instead of the `file` type, in places where the `file` type was not allowed.

* We fixed an issue where the attribution report was generating an empty file.
* We fixed an issue where an error popup message would be shown instead of a validation feedback message on the widget displaying the invalid attribute. This happened when the widget was inside a list data widget which was reloaded at the same time the validation feedback was received. (Ticket 145008)

* We fixed an issue in published OData services, where the runtime would return _500 Internal Server Error_ when the client tried to insert an object without specifying one of its required attributes. Now it returns _422 Unprocessable Entity_

* We fixed an issue where selection in a data grid or a tree controls does not reset if the user selects multiple rows and clicks on the same row that had the selection earlier.
* We fixed an issue when a non-editable cell in a data grid might get focused on tab navigation.

* We fixed an issue in published OData resources where publishing a non-persistable entity without a read microflow would not show a consistency error but cause a runtime error.

* We fixed an issue which was causing DataView's to attempt to refetch it's data source even after the unmount. (Ticket 152380)
* We fixed an error that appeared when a dialog showed a validation error after closing.
* We fixed an issue where the reference selector makes an unnecessary request when one of the parameters of the selectable objects data source is empty. (Ticket 140056)
* We added back type names for the 'for each' and 'while' loop microflow actions in the logging. These are 'ListLoop' and 'WhileLoop' respectively.
* We fixed an issue which caused a list view with an XPath data source to show incorrect results if it used variables in its XPath constraint and a controlling custom widget (ListViewControls, AutoLoadMore or GridSearch) was present on the same page. We improved the consistency check on the use of XPath variables to disallow this combination, but only if the custom widget is actually controlling that specific list view. (Ticket 154306)

* We fixed an issue where custom widgets wouldn't load when having an override for the base URL with the "appbase" option in "dojoConfig". (Ticket 162168)
* We fixed an issue where historical dates that were stored in a non-localized date attribute could be off by several seconds in certain timezones. (Ticket 165972)

* We fixed an issue for a workflow in which enumeration based decision with empty option fail if the empty path is not the last position
* We fixed an issue where XML schema validation failed when there is a XML Schema import Element in the schema file. (Ticket 152436 & 148726)

* We fixed an issue where Toolbox scrolling in Tile Mode exhibits irregular behaviour.
* We fixed an issue where the minus sign wouldn't display when using Arabic languages. (Ticket 144779)

* We fixed an issue in the documentation served by the runtime (e.g. `/rest-doc`), where the font defined in the stylesheet would not load.

* We fixed a scrolling issue for the 'GridControl', noticed mostly for the 'Console' log grid: Scrolling is not reset to the top of the grid anymore. (Ticket 163587, 163629).
* We fixed the issue in the 'Open App' dialog that branch lines would not be displayed correctly for apps that were created with an older version of Studio Pro.
* We fixed a couple of small issues where the user's avatar image (or a default image when the user doesn't have an avatar) would not show correctly after signing in.
* We fixed an issue where the justifyCenter design property did not work with the Scroll Container native widget. The design property now works with the widget. (Ticket 145729)
* We fixed an issue where system members (such as 'owner', 'changedBy', 'createdDate' and 'changedDate') could not be selected on 'Filter' and 'Find' list operations in a microflow (Ticket 151436)

* We fixed an issue with generate expression for changing an association on an object. (Ticket 163183)
* We fixed an issue where documents would be renamed unnecessarily when copying or moving them from one module to another.
* We fixed an issue where the periodic updating of sessions would give exceptions. (Ticket 162216)

* We fixed an issue where uploaded images are not rotated in the upright position based on orientation information in image metadata. (Ticket 155278)
* We fixed an issue where the error style did not work with the Reference Selector, Date Picker and Drop-Down native widgets. (Ticket 130360)
* We fixed an issue where Import Mapping with JSON and using Custom Range would not take into account the specified Amount. (Ticket 132368)
* We fixed an issue where Range value was not taken into account when importing JSON with Import mapping action. (Ticket 132368)
* We fixed an issue where Logic Bot fails to create Delete Object recommendation for an old microflow that has duplicate variable names.

* We fixed an 'ObjectDisposedException' that happened occasionally upon closing the 'Entity' dialog. 

* We upgraded OpenJDK to 11.0.16.1+1 in the Studio Pro installer. (Ticket 164386)
* Applying the OQL ROUND function to an expression of Decimals now returns a BigDecimal instead of a Double. (Ticket 162214)
* We fixed concatenating multiple strings with non-strings using the + operator in OQL.
* We've made the 'Edit Template Parameter' dialog resizable again.

* We fixed an issue where runtime reports errors related to Amazon S3 storage even though the application is not using Amazon S3 storage backend. (Ticket 166921)
* We fixed an issue where Studio Pro would show an error message when clicking the magnifying glass icon in the Find Results table.

* We fixed an issue in Workflows upgrade that finished branches of splits are no longer erroneously marked as newly added (reducing the amount of workflow upgrade conflicts).
* We fixed an issue in Workflows upgrade that cases in which Parallel Splits inserted in the executed path of workflow instances (having the current executing activities being put in one or more of the branches of that new Parallel Split) are not detected as workflow instances that can not be continued.
* We fixed an issue in Workflows that when continuing an incompatible workflow instance with some Parallel Split branches still in progress that already finished branches were put in progress again.
* We fixed an issue in the Workflow Engine that could cause the Mendix Runtime Server to run out of memory with workflows that have many user tasks, decisions and/or microflow calls.

* We fixed an issue where configuring 'Show page' as the 'On change' action of a reference selector always caused a consistency error that no suitable object was available.

* We fixed an issue where a Login id text box or Password text box widget that had 'Show Label' set to No would cause an error. (Ticket 167725)

* We fixed an issue with Performance Bot where if the user makes a change to the app during an inspection, then the Inspect Now button no longer works, until the next time a change is made.

* We fixed an issue where the attribute selector of a pluggable widget allowed unsupported association types to be followed, which would result in an error in the client.


* We fixed an issue where the attribute selector of a pluggable widget allowed unsupported association types to be followed, which would result in an error in the client.

* We fixed an issue in the DATEDIFF() function for HSQLDB, where it could be off by 1 day due to time zones.
* We fixed an issue with Arabic date/time format handling in HSQLDB. (Ticket 141313)

* We fixed an issue in native client where an early error during development is hidden by another error `'NativeBatchedLogHandler' has not been initialized...`.
* We fixed an issue in the sign-in if try again button is pressed several times in sequence (Ticket 160585)

* We fixed an issue which caused associated objects to disappear if a reference selector had a non-persistable entity as its selectable objects.  (Ticket 165279)

* We fixed an issue which caused attributes of `System.User` objects belonging to a role managed by the current user to be shown as empty in the client. (Ticket 138291)

* We fixed an issue with Performance Bot where if a recommendation was automatically applied, then the automatic inspection does not run and the recommendations do not update.
* We fixed an issue where the validation feedback for an input reference set selector on a tab page is displayed incorrectly. (Ticket 166542)
* We fixed an issue where the workflow would stay in the failed state when bypassing an activity that caused a workflow to fail via jump-to.
* We fixed an issue where the active language is incorrectly used when exporting pages causing the labels to be empty if the active language value is empty.

* We fixed an issue where the selection a row using the space-bar in the Module Roles dialog does not work. (Ticket 165926)
* We have fixed an issue where an attribute property of a nested pluggable widget was not editable when it was using an attribute from the outer data source. (Ticket 168679)
* We fixed an issue where a double scroll bar appeared in the Image Collection, System Texts, Message Definitions editors when resizing the editors.
* We fixed an issue where `Limit to current tab` button in Performance Bot was enabled while no documents were open.
* We fixed an issue when there are too many options for the radio buttons so that they can't fit in a single row, they are spreaded within multiple rows instead of getting cut-off. (Ticket 163486, 166056)
* We fixed an issue where the Home and End keys would not navigate to the first and last node of a tree.

* We fixed an issue where 'Refresh on show' for tabs was enabled but data was missing after revisiting the tab. (Ticket 150260, 166566, 166858).
* We fixed the 'ESC' key functionality in the grid control (i.e. if we edit a text cell, pressing the first 'ESC' will cancel the changes and get out of edit mode and pressing it the second time will close the dialog).
* We fixed an issue where a REST call would cause a "java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: org/slf4j/LoggerFactory" exception. (Ticket 168614)
* We fixed an issue where the progress bar does not disappear when a list view is reloaded multiple times. (Ticket 169514)
* We fixed an issue where a long path with a one-to-one association traversed from child to parent would fail if an intermediate object was empty. (Ticket 169759)

* We fixed an issue in Workflows upgrade that previously incompatible workflows are no longer marked as "Incompatible" after the second successful upgrade.
* We fixed an issue in Workflows upgrade that a paused workflow is no longer in "InProgress" after the successful upgrade.

* We fixed an issue which caused associated objects to disappear if a reference selector had a non-persistable entity as its selectable objects.  (Ticket 165279)

* We fixed an issue which caused attributes of `System.User` objects belonging to a role managed by the current user to be shown as empty in the client. (Ticket 138291)

* We fixed an issue where the validation feedback for an input reference set selector on a tab page is displayed incorrectly. (Ticket 166542)

* We fixed an issue where a workflow Jump activity raises the wrong consistency error when the activity is placed into a parallel branch.
* We fixed an issue where datetime fields would get incorrect values in OData services when receiving multiple simultaneous requests. (Ticket 170287)

* We fixed the issue where Studio Pro froze when microflow activities were dragged from the toolbar. (Tickets 168530, 168328, 165904, 165769, 165516, 165491, 164808)
* We fixed an issue where uploading an image with unsupported Exif Orientation Tag would fail. (Ticket 170543)

### Deprecations

* We dropped support for the following database versions that are no longer supported by vendors:
  * PostgreSQL 10
  * SQL Server 2017

* Starting with version 9.22, we will drop support for MariaDB 10.2 because it is no longer supported by the vendor

### Limitations

### Breaking Changes

### Known Issues

[//]: # (Document fixes in this release for known issues in earlier release notes.)







### Known Issues

* When you navigate between dockable panes using <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Tab</kbd> while in the microflow editor, page editor, or **Properties** pane, releasing <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> does not close the pane-selection dialog box. (Ticket 163193)
    * Workaround: Use <kbd>Enter</kbd> or a mouse click to close the dialog box. 
