---
title: "9.21"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/9.20/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro version 9.20 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
weight: 80
#Deprecation note for 9.22: MariaDB 10.2 support to be dropped, update RN and System Requirements
#KI: "When you navigate between dockable panes" - SPX-2661
---

## 9.21.0 {#9210}

**Release date: December 20th, 2022**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.21.0" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.21.0 from the Marketplace" %}}

### New Features

#### Multiple Snippet Parameters

With this release we made re-using UI simpler and more powerful. Followed by support for multiple page parameters, we now added support for multiple snippet parameters! You can now pass multiple parameters to a snippet call, just as you can with pages, microflows and nanoflows. Inside a snippet, you can select attributes from a parameter directly or create data views which use a parameter or its associations. And next to that, the parameters can also be used in expressions without the need for a data view.

Just like page parameters, snippet parameters are created automatically when you select an entity for the *Context* data source of a data view inside a snippet. You can also use the *Parameters* button in the top bar of the page editor to change the parameters of a snippet manually.

Thank you [Bart Rikers](https://developer.mendixcloud.com/link/profile/overview/43347) for mentioning this on the [Idea forum](https://forum.mendix.com/link/ideas/1938)!

### Improvements

* Rules can be used to make validation microflows using the Validation Assist 
* In the workflow settings we changed the text of the following settings: "Parallel Workflow executions" to "Workflow instance threads" and "Parallel task executions" to "Microflow threads".
* In the workflow settings we removed the cap on the amount of Workflow instance threads and Microflow threads.
* We've added the option to copy styling of a widget. Allowing copying the inline styles, (dynamic) classes, and (applicable) design properties to other widgets.
[//]: # (Include links/references to Idea Forum ideas when available.)

#### Git version control

* New apps created in Studio Pro or in the Developer Portal will by default be created with Git as version control system. You can still choose to create an app in SVN.
* For apps using Git as version control system the "Update" command has been renamed to "Pull", which is more common Git terminology.
* If pushing your changes to the server fails because you first have to pull and merge changes from the server, you no longer get an error, but an information message describing the steps to take instead.

#### Performance Improvements

* We decreased the time it takes to rename an entity and corresponding associations.

#### Other Improvements

* We added a new method to the Runtime API to set the workflow parameter context object
* We have improved the modeling experience when moving or copy-pasting a widget that uses an attribute. In many situations, there is only one available entity for which the selected attribute (path) is valid and the widget can therefore be reconfigured automatically. This prevents unnecessary consistency errors that would need to be fixed manually.

### Fixes 1

* We fixed an issue where re-uploading a file after changing it's content wouldn't reflect and would rather upload the unchanged version. (Ticket 164543 and 153955)
* We fixed an issue where published OData services would return error messages from microflows in an incorrect JSON format.
* We fixed an inconsistency in the error codes that are returned by published OData services.
* We fixed an issue where keyboard shortcuts were not working in **Properties** pane.
* We fixed `MendixBinary.storeValue` when the binary attribute is a member of a generalization. (Ticket 162481)
* We fixed an issue where the error message in the expression editor would not wrap when becoming too long for the editor.
* We fixed an issue in published OData services, where services using OData version 3 would show that they had an OpenApi contract. OpenApi contracts for OData services are only for OData version 4.
* We fixed an issue in published OData services where POST and PATCH requests on subpaths would be accepted. Now a request like `PATCH /Products(1)/Category(2)` is always rejected, because `PATCH` requests over associations are not supported.
* We fixed an issue an unhandled client error crashes the native mobile apps, causing them to close immediately. Now such errors will trigger an alert with a description and options to either restart or close the app.
* We made the dialog to edit a published REST resource slightly larger, so the documentation text area shows fully without having to resize the dialog first.
* We fixed an issue where, in some situations, conditional visible input widgets inside a snippet were incorrectly hidden when the snippet was used multiple times on a page. (Ticket 151997)
* We fixed an issue when trying to debug Swagger UI served as interactive REST documentation by the runtime. The javascript and css files refer to a source map. Now the runtime serves that source map as well.
* We fixed an issue in Studio Pro where dropping a microflow onto a published REST resource would create a new resource rather than creating a new operation within the resource.
* We fixed an issue where the Swagger UI provided by published REST services would have non-functioning Execute buttons. This was solved by changing the published `swagger.json` document to include the correct parameter type for List or Object parameters, instead of the `file` type, in places where the `file` type was not allowed.
* We fixed an issue where the attribution report was generating an empty file.
* We fixed an issue in published OData services, where using a single quote to address an object would cause an error to occur.
* We fixed an issue where an error popup message would be shown instead of a validation feedback message on the widget displaying the invalid attribute. This happened when the widget was inside a list data widget which was reloaded at the same time the validation feedback was received. (Ticket 145008)
* We fixed an issue in published OData services, where the runtime would return _500 Internal Server Error_ when the client tried to insert an object without specifying one of its required attributes. Now it returns _422 Unprocessable Entity_
* We fixed an issue where selection in a data grid or a tree controls does not reset if the user selects multiple rows and clicks on the same row that had the selection earlier.
* We fixed an issue when a non-editable cell in a data grid might get focused on tab navigation.
* We fixed an issue in published OData resources where publishing a non-persistable entity without a read microflow would not show a consistency error but cause a runtime error.
* We fixed an issue which was causing DataView's to attempt to refetch it's data source even after the unmount. (Ticket 152380)
* We fixed an error that appeared when a dialog showed a validation error after closing.
* We fixed an issue where the reference selector makes an unnecessary request when one of the parameters of the selectable objects data source is empty. (Ticket 140056)
* We added back type names for the 'for each' and 'while' loop microflow actions in the logging. These are 'ListLoop' and 'WhileLoop' respectively.
* We fixed an issue which caused a list view with an XPath data source to show incorrect results if it used variables in its XPath constraint and a controlling custom widget (ListViewControls, AutoLoadMore or GridSearch) was present on the same page. We improved the consistency check on the use of XPath variables to disallow this combination, but only if the custom widget is actually controlling that specific list view. (Ticket 154306)
* We fixed an issue where custom widgets wouldn't load when having an override for the base URL with the "appbase" option in "dojoConfig". (Ticket 162168)
* We fixed an issue where historical dates that were stored in a non-localized date attribute could be off by several seconds in certain timezones. (Ticket 165972)
* We fixed an issue for a workflow in which enumeration based decision with empty option fail if the empty path is not the last position
* We fixed an issue in published OData services where resources with keys other than `id` would give an error when the client left out the key from the `$select` clause. (Ticket 171726)
* We fixed an issue where XML schema validation failed when there is a XML Schema import Element in the schema file. (Ticket 152436 & 148726)
* We did several improvements in log subscribers:
  * Log message format has been unified for FileSubscriber, ConsoleSubscriber, LoggerSubscriber and SyslogSubscriber
  * When logging an error, the log message and the exception stacktrace are now printed as a single log entry
  * Improved internal error handling
    * If FileSubscriber detects an infinite logging loop while logging an internal error, it stops using the Logging API and writes the error into a `.err` file. The `.err` file is saved to the same directory with the regular log file.
    * All other subscribers do same but write the error to [stderr](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_error_stream)
* We now support deleting an external object and then creating a new object with the same key.
* Validation Assist works correctly with external entities: instead of committing them there is Send External Object action for such entities in a generated microflow
* We made the Console grid sortable.
* We fixed an issue when editing a scss file and closing the editor with unsaved changes. (Ticket 171763)
* We added support for the functions `replace(expression, pattern, replacement)`, `lower(expression)`, and `upper(expression)` to OQL
* In the microflow editor, we now allow you to filter microflow actions on specific ways to process lists, like `Union`, `Sum`, or `Sort`, to make it easier to select the right list action type.
* Signing in using your default browser is now the only way to sign in with Studio Pro.

### Fixes 2

* We fixed an issue when publishing an entity in an OData service in Studio Pro. This would sometimes cause consistency error CE6624 (a validation rule is required) for entities that do not allow validation rules, such as system entities and external entities.
* We fixed an issue in consumed OData services which caused an error when filtering on boolean attributes in a data container widget.
* We fixed an issue where creating a deployment package on the cloud fails for an app with OTA (Over-the-air updates) enabled. (Ticket 169390)
* We fixed an 'ObjectDisposedException' that happened occasionally upon closing the 'Entity' dialog.
* We fixed an issue where a snippet call without a snippet selected would throw an error in some cases.
* We fixed a UI issue where the workflow editor in dark mode shows incorrect icons and uses incorrect colors.
* We fixed an issue that caused a consistency error when generating user task pages with only one outcome.
* We fixed an issue where a popup could be closed even though a blocking progress bar was being displayed. (Ticket 168238)
* We fixed an issue where certain data or actions could not be retrieved/executed because of conditional visibility. (Ticket 168875)
* We fixed an issue with proxy authentication when a locale or language pack other than 'English' were used on the user's machine.
* We improved how Performance Bot Best Practice MXP012 finds the committed variables and also handles logically empty loops.
* When using a String (in ISO 8601 format) or Integer/Long (milliseconds since Jan 1, 1970) in the OQL functions DATEDIFF and DATEPART, they are now converted to a Date and time not only when the function is used in the WHERE clause, but also in the SELECT clause.
* We fixed an issue where thumbnail is not deleted when the image associated with the thumbnails is deleted. (Ticket 171367)
* We fixed an issue where Pane navigation dialog is not closed after releasing `Ctrl` key if the `Microflow` editor, `Page` editors or the `Properties` pane is focused. (Ticket 163193)
* When duplicating or copying workflows, pages set on user tasks would get cleared which resulted in consistency errors. Instead, set user task pages do not get cleared anymore.
* We improved the user task properties by swapping the location of the default option of the who can access configuration.
* We fixed an issue when pressing the space bar within a data grid did not toggle the selected checkbox cells. (Ticket 165926)
* We fixed an issue that prevents published OData services from properly handling update and delete requests if the exposed entity is not persistable.
* We fixed an issue where searching Date and time values with Range Search Field could filter dates wrong (Ticket 147935)

### Deprecations

* We have deprecated the `Core.retrieveXPathQuery` methods in the Java API. Please use `Core.createXPathQuery` instead.

### Known Issues

* When you navigate between dockable panes using <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Tab</kbd> while in the microflow editor, page editor, or **Properties** pane, releasing <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> does not close the pane-selection dialog box. (Ticket 163193)
    * Workaround: Use <kbd>Enter</kbd> or a mouse click to close the dialog box. 
