---
title: "9.24"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/9.24/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro version 9.24 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
weight: 76
---

{{% alert color="info" %}}
This is the [LTS](/releasenotes/studio-pro/lts-mts/#lts) version 9 release for apps in production.
{{% /alert %}}

## 9.24.6 {#9246}

**Release date: August 22, 2023**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.24.6" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.24.6 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements

* We updated the Git that is installed with Studio Pro to version 2.41.0.3-64-bit.

### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where a commit, rollback, or delete action did not always send the associated object along. (Tickets 152735, 184397)
* We now encode file paths before logging them. This solves an issue where a log message could occupy multiple lines in the log. (Ticket 175643)
* We fixed an issue that occurred when updating a widget to its latest version available in the Marketplace where the update returned an error if the latest widget's supported Studio Pro versions were above the Studio Pro version used to update the widget. Now, it is only possible to update to a widget version that supports the Studio Pro version in use, and not necessarily to the most up-to-date widget. (Ticket 183294)
* We fixed an issue where having a hidden custom close action button prevented the default rollback behavior. (Ticket 184642)
* We fixed an issue where creating a non-persistable entity led to errors when the entity contained a system attribute. (Tickets 189835, 190622)
* We fixed an issue where an app containing an input widget with a page title override on one of its actions triggered an error and could not be opened. (Ticket 192138)
* We fixed an issue that occurred after double-clicking a node in a tree control where other elements in the app  (for example, buttons) did not get selected after a single click, only after a second click.
* We fixed an issue that occurred when merging a branch with a document that had already been port-fixed into the target branch. Double-clicking the conflicting document led to an "oops" pop-up window.

## 9.24.5 {#9245}

**Release date: July 31, 2023**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.24.5" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.24.5 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements

#### Performance Improvements

* We improved offline database performance by optimizing the reading of file objects.

#### Other Improvements

* We made it possible to set **Localize** to **No** for date and time attributes of external entities. (Ticket 188260)

### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where the XPath constraint of a data source produced incorrect results if the widget was placed inside a pluggable widget and the constraint used attributes from a page variable (such as `$currentObject'). (Ticket 178210)
* We fixed the behavior of the [Pluggable Widget Filtering API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/pluggable-widgets-client-apis-list-values/#listvalue-filtering) for attributes over association. Now, a filter such as `equals(attributeId, empty())` will also match if any of the associations leading up to the attribute are empty. (Ticket 186042)
* We fixed an error that occurred when calling `Core.http().executeHttpRequests()` from a Java action when the **Services** log level was set to **TRACE**. (Tickets 187228, 187764)
* We fixed an issue in offline applications where an association was lost if an uncommitted non-persistable entity (NPE) was used in a microflow. (Ticket 187904)
* We fixed an issue that occurred when retrieving an NPE over an association where the entity had a generalization with a calculated attribute. (Ticket 188255)
* We fixed an issue where the fallback to the default language when viewing non-default languages was not used for a [text template property](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/pluggable-widgets-property-types/#texttemplate) when it was linked to a data source. This resulted in empty text in the client (for example, for the dynamic text property of a data grid 2 column). (Ticket 188724)
* We fixed an issue where scientific notation was not supported by the `parseDecimal` function in nanoflows. (Ticket 189270)
* We fixed an issue where the sort order of a list view could not be selected or edited if it was inside another list view. (Ticket 190576)
* We fixed an issue that caused an error when deploying an app if a snippet contained a check box with an on-change action that used a snippet parameter. (Ticket 191010)
* We fixed an issue where a data grid 2 module configured with an XPath data source with a `not equal` constraint did not apply the filters on associations that had been specified in the drop-down filter widget. (Ticket 191292)
* We fixed an issue where an XPath expression like `//A[A_B/B/attr = 'value'][A_B/B = $param]` ignored the second constraint when its path ended in an entity name and was a prefix of the other path. Please note that Studio Pro does not allow the form `[A_B/B = $param]`, only the equivalent `[A_B = $param]` or `[A_B/B/id = $param]`.
* We fixed accessibility issues affecting data grid filters and the search bar in the list view widget.
* We fixed an issue related to the accessibility of input labels in login widgets.
* We fixed an issue that caused an error message to be shown when closing a dialog box.
* We fixed an issue affecting [text boxes](/refguide/text-box/) where the <kbd>Enter</kbd> key-press event was called from pop-up windows, which caused unexpected behavior.

## 9.24.4 {#9244}

**Release date: July 6, 2023**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.24.4" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.24.4 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements

* We removed the limitation that stopped you from automatically creating import and export mappings from message definitions with more than 100 attributes.
* We added a new log node called **IDResolution**, which provides more details about certain actions being executed on the Mendix Runtime.
* Cloning another branch of a Git app in which you already have a branch on disk now first makes a local copy and then downloads the latest version from the server (instead of completely downloading the branch from the server). As Git always downloads the entire history (whereas SVN only downloads the latest revision), making this local copy significantly speeds up working with branches for Git apps.
* We improved the **Synchronize to device** activity's performance when it deals with large numbers of objects.

### Fixes

* We mitigated [CVE-2022-34716](https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2022-34716) by updating third-party dependencies. This CVE does not pose any apparent risk for Mendix customers.
* <a name="be-ki-fix"></a>We fixed a [known issue](#be-ki) where the subscription of a business event did not start at the startup of the app when that app had been created with a Studio Pro version lower than 9.24.
* We fixed an issue where a pluggable widget with a [widgets](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/pluggable-widgets-property-types/#widgets) property linked to a data source and an [image](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/pluggable-widgets-property-types/#image) property configured as a dynamic image was rendering incorrect data. (Ticket 117735)
* We fixed a memory leak that occurred when opening pages. This caused issues after opening thousands of pages. (Ticket 172126)
* We fixed an issue where Chrome extensions crashed the client. (Tickets 180229, 180230, 180385, 180405, 180450, 180472, 183144)
* We fixed an issue in offline-first profiles where a failed synchronization due to committing some invalid changes did not provide sufficient information about the error in the logs or stack trace. (Tickets 183328, 186301)
* We fixed an issue where no error message was shown when an update of a Mendix Marketplace module failed. (Ticket 183507)
* We fixed an issue with widget packaging during the export of solution modules that caused widget conflicts on the consuming side. Now, the solution modules are exported without the widgets. (Ticket 183918)
* We fixed an issue where no consistency error was shown on an invalid expression in a microflow when using an association that could not be traversed. (Ticket 185701)
* We fixed an issue in published REST services and published OData services that use a combination of custom authentication and another authentication type. When the custom authentication does not authenticate the user but a subsequent authentication type does, the operation was previously unable to read the body of the request. (Ticket 185790)
* We fixed the issue where the **Documentation** pane did not show the documentation corresponding to the selected element in certain conditions. (Ticket 185876)
* We fixed an issue where Validation Assist generated an incorrect validation microflow. (Ticket 186222)
* We fixed an issue where the compilation of Java actions failed when annotation processors were used. (Ticket 186516)
* We fixed an issue that allowed for adding custom icons to native pages, as native pages do not support custom icons. (Ticket 186783)
* We fixed an issue where Studio Pro crashed if you accidentally dropped a container widget onto itself. (Ticket 189191)
* We fixed an issue that caused the warning pop-up window for the [inline snippet](/refguide/snippet-call/#inline-snippet) action to mention the same affected widget multiple times.
* We fixed an issue that caused the inline snippet action to crash if the surrounding data widget was not configured.
* We fixed an issue where a page parameter triggered a warning that it was unused if the only reference to that parameter was inside an XPath constraint.
* We fixed an issue where a page parameter did not trigger a warning that it was unused if the parameter mapping of an action or data source pointed to an object of the same entity as the parameter.
* We fixed an issue where the **Commit Message** field was not focused upon opening the **Commit** dialog box.
* We fixed an issue in the OpenAPI contract of published OData services where the server URL contained a double slash.
* We fixed an issue that occurred with the Machine Learning Kit when the app is deployed on Mendix Cloud. If you still experience issues deploying to Mendix Cloud, please ensure the Machine Learning model has been re-imported.
* We fixed an issue that occurred when the Machine Learning Kit mapping document was moved and the underlying ONNX file was not copied to the new location.
* We fixed an issue in the grid control where selecting multiple cells using <kbd>Shift</kbd> was inconsistent when clicking the interactable control itself in the cell (meaning, the check box).
* We fixed an issue with the search field where multiselection did not work correctly with numeric attributes.
* We fixed the tooltips that were not displayed for disabled toolbar buttons.
* We fixed an issue where the navigation editor's width changed upon performing UI updates (for example, toggling a check box).
* We fixed an exception in the XPath constraint editor that was thrown when the list of autocomplete suggestions was open and an erroneous character was being typed.
* We fixed an issue where expressions in pluggable widgets were not updated correctly when renaming an element (like a module or an entity), which caused consistency errors.
* We fixed an issue where the nanoflow debugger did not stay paused after 30 seconds.
* We fixed missing deprecations for the `Counters`, `Gauges`, `Sets`, and `Timers` interfaces from the Mendix Runtime API. These interfaces will be removed in Mendix 11. Implementations for these interfaces were only accessible through deprecated methods before.

### Deprecations

* We dropped support for MariaDB 10.3, as it is no longer supported by the vendor.

## 9.24.3 {#9243}

**Release date: June 7, 2023**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.24.3" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.24.3 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements

* We added `getSslContext` to the `IHttpConfiguration` interface in the Mendix Runtime API. This gives the Java code access to the `SslContext` that should be used to call a service based on the Mendix Runtime settings.
* We added the custom setting `RequestHandling.AllowLegacyCookies` to allow for violations of RFC 6265, which is enforced in the most recent Jetty versions (for more information, see [RFC6265_LEGACY](https://www.eclipse.org/jetty/javadoc/jetty-10/org/eclipse/jetty/http/CookieCompliance.html#RFC6265_LEGACY)). Be aware of the fact that enabling this custom setting exposes your app to [CVE-2023-26049](https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2023-26049).
* We changed the default location for a published OData service to use lower-case.
* We added an error page for when Studio Pro cannot open your default browser from the login dialog box.
* We added a private market option to the list of available target markets for Studio Pro.

### Fixes

* We mitigated [CVE-2023-32314](https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2023-32314) by upgrading the vm2 library. This CVE does not pose any apparent risk for Mendix customers.
* We fixed an issue where objects were garbage-collected for pages with multiple page parameters. (Ticket 180470)
* We fixed an issue where the `originURI` cookie could not be read when using the default `index.html`. (Ticket 181106).
* We fixed an issue where importing a file from a version below 9.24 caused many errors to appear. (Ticket 182860)
* We fixed an issue where attribute widgets (for example, a text box) did not trigger a consistency error if the selected attribute had an invalid source, causing an error when deploying the app. (Ticket 183379)
* We fixed an issue with getting the device name as the phone's factory name in mobile apps. (Ticket 183392)
* We fixed an issue that occurred when a nanoflow retrieved a non-persistable entity over an association and the entity had an event handler. (Ticket 183879)
* We fixed an issue with dojo widgets that was causing custom icon collections not to work. (Ticket 183996)
* We fixed the colors of the term `empty` and the symbol `-` in the XPath constraint editor. (Ticket 183998).
* We fixed an issue in published REST services where publishing two REST services on the same location caused a consistency error. (This was not a problem where services did not publish resources and operations that resulted in the same operation URL.) (Tickets 185087, 185423)
* We fixed an issue that caused the warning pop-up window for the [inline snippet](/refguide/snippet-call/#inline-snippet) action to mention the same affected widget multiple times.
* We fixed an issue that caused the inline snippet action to crash if the surrounding data widget was not configured.
* We fixed an issue where a page parameter triggered a warning that it was unused if the only reference to that parameter was inside an XPath constraint.
* We fixed an issue where a page parameter did not trigger a warning that it was unused if the parameter mapping of an action or data source pointed to an object of the same entity as the parameter.
* We fixed an issue in the grid control where selecting multiple cells using <kbd>Shift</kbd> was inconsistent when clicking on the interactable control itself in the cell (meaning, the check box).
* We fixed an issue with the search field where multiselection did not work correctly with numeric attributes.
* We fixed an issue that occurred when the **Commit Message** field was not focused upon opening the **Commit** dialog box.
* We fixed an issue where expressions in pluggable widgets were not updated correctly when renaming an element (like a module or an entity), which caused consistency errors.
* We fixed an issue in the OpenAPI contract of published OData services where the server URL contained a double slash.
* We fixed an issue that occurred when adding external entities to an app where the generation of enumerations caused an error.
* We fixed an exception in the XPath constraint editor that was thrown when the list of autocomplete suggestions was open and an erroneous character was being typed.
* We fixed a Mendix Runtime error that occurred when a microflow was no longer being used in an app after doing a hot reload in Studio Pro.

### Deprecations 

* We deprecated the `Counters`, `Gauges`, `Sets`, and `Timers` interfaces from the Mendix Runtime API. Implementations for these interfaces were only accessible through deprecated methods before. These will be removed in Mendix 11.

### Known Issues

* Converting apps with business event services that were built with Studio Pro 9.23 and below to Studio Pro 9.24 causes a problem where the event name of subscribe events incorrectly also includes the prefix. This breaks the business event functionality and prevents apps from receiving events.
    * Fixed in [9.24.4](#be-ki-fix).

## 9.24.2 {#9242}

**Release date: May 4, 2023**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.24.2" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.24.2 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements

* We improved data encryption in mobile apps. (Ticket 181442)
* We reduced the amount of output of Java compilation errors during deployment.

### Fixes

* We mitigated [CVE-2023-30547](https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2023-30547) by upgrading the vm2 library. This CVE does not pose any apparent risk for Mendix customers.
* We fixed an issue where the debugger threw an error and disconnected after 30 seconds of inactivity. (Tickets 151937, 169696, 175161, 175542, 178553, 180332)
* We fixed an issue where non-localized date/time attributes in XPath constraints were not handled correctly, producing incorrect queries. (Ticket 176850)
* We fixed an issue where an object validation was removed incorrectly. (Ticket 180011)
* We fixed an issue where the language-sensitive parts on pages were not fully updated when you changed the language via the [Language Selector](/appstore/widgets/language-selector/) widget. (Tickets 180130, 180670, 180824, 181274, 181713, 181974)
* We fixed an issue that occurred when opening multiple modal pop-up windows at the same time and it was not possible to focus widgets in the pop-up widget that was on top. (Ticket 180137)
* We fixed an issue where an inherited association could not be published in a published OData service that used links as object IDs. (Ticket 181474)
* We fixed an issue in XPath constraint suggestions that gave incorrect suggestions when there were whitespace characters after comparison operators (`=`,`<`,`>`,`<=`,`=>`,`!=`). (Tickets 181673, 181908)
* We fixed a crash that occurred during login that blocked some users from logging in. (Tickets 181864, 183014) 
* We fixed an issue that caused the attribute of conditional visibility settings or the text template parameters of a button inside a reference set selector to not be selectable, which resulted in a consistency error. (Ticket 182203)
* We fixed an issue in the OpenAPI contract of published REST services where operations that used an import mapping had a schema defined for the other parameters but not the type. (Ticket 182615)
* We fixed an issue in the OpenAPI contract of published OData services where `GET` operations no longer specified the `$expand` parameter when there were no associations to expand. (Ticket 182627)
* We fixed an issue where deployment failed on the Linux operating system when module names contained upper-case letters. (Tickets 183841, 183872)
* We fixed an issue where clicking **Load more** on a list view triggered the on-click event on a surrounding widget. (Ticket 365439)
* We fixed an issue where creating a non-persistable entity led to errors when attributes were read-only.
* We fixed an issue that triggered a consistency error on a text template of a pluggable widget inside a snippet with multiple parameters if the template had parameters based on an attribute.
* We fixed an issue with text controls where the text was sometimes undesirably reverted.
* We fixed an issue in the grid control where selecting multiple cells using <kbd>Shift</kbd> was inconsistent when clicking on the interactable control itself in the cell (meaning, the check box).
* We fixed an issue in XPath constraint suggestions that gave incorrect suggestions when there were multiple predicates (meaning, expressions between the square brackets [`[`, `]`]).

### Known Issues

* Converting apps with business event services that were built with Studio Pro 9.23 and below to Studio Pro 9.24 causes a problem where the event name of subscribe events incorrectly also includes the prefix. This breaks the business event functionality and prevents apps from receiving events.
    * Fixed in [9.24.4](#be-ki-fix).

## 9.24.1 {#9241}

**Release date: April 13, 2023**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.24.1" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.24.1 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements

#### Performance Improvements

* We improved the performance of editing published web service operations. Operations that expose large data structures no longer cause Studio Pro to become unresponsive upon opening the editing dialog box. (Ticket 179950)

#### Other Improvements

* We added a new way to convert between microflows and nanoflows by right-clicking the microflow or nanoflow in the **App Explorer**. For more information, see the alternative option specified in the [Converting a Microflow to a Nanoflow](/refguide9/microflows/#convert-to-nanoflow) section in *Microflows* and in the [Converting a Nanoflow to a Microflow](/refguide9/nanoflows/#convert-to-microflow) section in *Nanoflows*.
* We improved the export size of the model. It should now be about half the size in a lot of cases. (Ticket 174121)

### Fixes

* We mitigated [CVE-2023-29017](https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2023-29017) by upgrading the vm2 library. This CVE does not pose any apparent risk for Mendix customers.
* We fixed an issue in the domain model editor where an element outside the boundaries of the current view was not scrolled to when there was navigation via [Go to options](/refguide9/go-to-option/). (Ticket 178829)
* We fixed an issue where a domain-level validation message could not be translated. You can now use the `mendix.lib.Validations.field_issue` system text to translate and change this message. (Tickets 180448, 181175)
* The results of [Find Usages](/refguide9/find-and-find-advanced/#find-usages) now include enumeration values used for conditional visibility. (Ticket 180727)
* We fixed an issue where an application with excluded *.jar* files failed to deploy. (Ticket 181931)
* We fixed the keyboard shortcut behavior for <kbd>Enter</kbd> and <kbd>Space</kbd> in the tree controls.
* We fixed an issue where the status of `ScheduledEventInformation` was `Completed` when the associated scheduled event failed.
* We fixed a Mendix Runtime error that occurred when a microflow was no longer being used in an app after doing a hot reload in Studio Pro.

### Deprecations

* We will drop support for MariaDB 10.3 after June 1, 2023, as it is no longer supported by the vendor.

### Known Issues

* Converting apps with business event services that were built with Studio Pro 9.23 and below to Studio Pro 9.24 causes a problem where the event name of subscribe events incorrectly also includes the prefix. This breaks the business event functionality and prevents apps from receiving events.
    * Fixed in [9.24.4](#be-ki-fix).

## 9.24.0 {#9240}

**Release date: March 28, 2023**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.24.0" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.24.0 from the Marketplace" %}}

{{% alert color="info" %}}For more information on this release, see the [Mendix Release 9.24 – What a Ride It Has Been](https://www.mendix.com/blog/mendix-release-9-24-what-a-ride-it-has-been/) blog post.{{% /alert %}}

### New Features

#### Custom Icon Support

We added the ability to use custom icon fonts in your apps. This gives you the freedom to choose between using your own icons and Mendix's own glyph icons

Custom icon support allows you to do the following:.

* Create icon collections
* Import icons from icon font files (*.ttf*)
* Add tags to individual icons
* Choose a name for each icon
* Bulk import icon tags and names from a CSV file
* Configure icon collections to use a specific class name and a dedicated prefix for the icons
* Use the icons in widgets, page navigation, pages, building blocks, page templates, snippets, and custom widgets

For more information, see [Icon Collection](/refguide9/icon-collection/) in the *Studio Pro Guide*.

#### Other New Features

* We added a new feature that allows you to convert a microflow into a nanoflow and vice versa. You can easily convert between the two by right-clicking in the microflow/nanoflow editor. For more information, see the [Converting a Microflow to a Nanoflow](/refguide9/microflows/#convert-to-nanoflow) section in *Microflows* and the [Converting a Nanoflow to a Microflow](/refguide9/nanoflows/#convert-to-microflow) section in *Nanoflows*.

    {{% alert color="info" %}}This is based on an idea from Luke Sheldon submitted to the [Mendix Idea Forum](https://forum.mendix.com/link/space/microflows/ideas/1600). Thank you, Luke!{{% /alert %}}

* We added a way for you to create a new app from a spreadsheet and import your own data. You can choose the **App from spreadsheet** template when creating a new app. This functionality generates entities, associations, attributes, and data for the app. For more information, see [Starting with App from a Spreadsheet](/refguide9/app-from-spreadsheet/).
* We introduced a new synchronization mode: **Never**. When you set synchronization to Never for an entity, its objects will not be synchronized between the Mendix Runtime and the offline database during a **Full synchronization**. The objects can still be synchronized using **Sync-to-device** or **Selective synchronization**, but you will be in control of what is synchronized and when. For more information, see the [Customizable Synchronization](/refguide9/mobile/building-efficient-mobile-apps/offlinefirst-data/synchronization/#customizable-synchronization) section of *Offline Synchronization*. 
* We added a new [Range](/refguide9/list-operation/#range) operation action to the **List operation** activity.
* We added a new setting in **Preferences** > **Advanced** that allows you to [Enable software rendering mode](/refguide9/preferences-dialog/#rendering). This can help to to work around hardware and driver issues and to improve performance when such issues exist.

### Improvements

#### Performance Improvements

* We reduced the CPU usage of Studio Pro that occurs when the application is idle.

#### React Native Upgrade

We updated our core libraries React Native to v0.70.7 and React to v18.2.0. This update brings many improvements to stability, performance, and security for all Mendix native mobile apps. 

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
After upgrading Studio Pro to 9.24, you must use [Native Template v7.0.0](/releasenotes/mobile/nt-7-rn/#700) for your native apps.
{{% /alert %}}

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
Due to some breaking changes in React Native, mobile extensions such as JavaScript actions and widgets might need to be updated. Please test any third-party extensions before updating your app.
{{% /alert %}}

#### Inline Snippet

The context menu option to inline a snippet call has been vastly improved. Leveraging the full power of multiple snippet parameters, **Inline snippet** now replaces all references to a snippet parameter with the corresponding mapping in the [Snippet settings](/refguide9/snippet-call/#snippet-settings) of the snippet call when inserting the content of the snippet. For more information, see the [Inline Snippet](/refguide9/snippet-call/#inline-snippet) section of *Snippet Call*.

There are a few cases where a widget cannot be correctly represented when inlining a snippet, and these now trigger a warning pop-up window that lists the affected widgets and asks you if you want to continue. This makes it significantly easier to inline a complex snippet without introducing errors.

#### Selecting Attributes

We made the following improvements for selecting attributes:

* In conditional settings, it is now possible to select an attribute from any surrounding data widget when configuring conditional visibility or editability. This includes snippets with multiple parameters.
* For the parameters of text templates, it is now possible to select an attribute path from any surrounding data widget or snippet parameter. 
* In association widgets, the reference selector and input reference set selector can now select an attribute from any surrounding data widget. This also allows them to be used in snippets with multiple parameters.

#### Business Events

We made a major update to your business events modelling experience:

* Business event service creators and users can now configure [multiple event publishers and subscribers](/appstore/modules/business-events/#two-way-be). This means you get the full power of asynchronous communication across your enterprise landscape.
* You can now create [business events](/appstore/modules/business-events/) within the service document itself. Based on the definition of the events and the implementation, entities are created for you automatically.
* Published business event service and consumed business event service options have been combined into [one menu item](/refguide9/business-event-services/) to help you get going quickly.

#### Other Improvements {#improvements}

* We updated the [Make It Native](/refguide9/mobile/getting-started-with-mobile/prerequisites/) app to make it compatible with this Studio Pro version. This means it is no longer compatible with older Studio Pro versions (unless you are using Testflight). We recommend upgrading your app to 9.24 or [building a custom developer app](/refguide9/mobile/distributing-mobile-apps/building-native-apps/how-to-devapps/).
* We added support for the following database versions:
    * MariaDB 10.11
    * Microsoft SQL Server 2022
    * Oracle 21c
    * PostgreSQL 15
* Studio Pro now builds apps using Gradle. You can switch back to Ant if you disable building using Gradle in [Preferences](/refguide9/preferences-dialog/#gradle). 
* We added a button to the **Open App** dialog box that opens the [Open App](/refguide/open-app-dialog/) documentation.
* We now provide more accurate drag-and-drop feedback on domain model and navigation editors, and we fixed the incorrect feedback for a few controls.
* We updated the data grid and tree controls to allow for scrolling the containing dialog box using the mouse wheel when the cursor is over the controls and the controls do not have a vertical scroll-bar.
* We improved the resizing behavior of the **Entity Access Rules** dialog box so that the **Documentation** field no longer takes a lot of space. Instead, the grid with **Member Rights** settings adjusts itself to the available space.
* The Mendix Client now now retrieves non-persistable objects over a direct association without sending a request as long as they have no virtual attributes.
* We revised MxAssist Performance Bot best practice [MXP015](/refguide9/performance-best-practices/#mxp015) for XPath ordering to avoid false positives.
* We extended MxAssist Performance Bot best practice [MXP003](/refguide9/performance-best-practices/#mxp003) for a non-indexed attribute used in sorting to include the Integer type.
* We added a general note to the MxAssist Performance Bot recommendation pop-up messages.
* <a id="private-git"></a>Private Git is now always enabled, so there is no need to enable it in the Studio Pro **Preferences**.
* It is no longer possible to create new apps with SVN for the version control. You can still download existing SVN-controlled apps.
* We added support to [ML Kit](/refguide9/machine-learning-kit/) for importing an ONNX file with all static input shapes but some dynamic output shapes.
* We aligned the status codes and error messages that a published OData service returns for a number of cases where the resource is either not existing or not accessible. In these cases, we now return the status 404 "resource not found."
* It is now possible to use enum attributes in consumed OData entities.
* A solution upgrade is now possible on all branches.
* We made **Count** the default aggregate list function.
* A workflow user task that has failed due to no users targeted by a microflow can now be retried after users are assigned manually.
* We updated the Dojo library to version 1.17.3.

### Fixes

* <a id="layout"></a>We fixed a [known issue](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.23/#ki-layout) with opening or creating layout documents where an "oops" pop-up window was produced. You can now safely enable the [New Properties pane preview](/refguide9/preferences-dialog/#properties) setting in **Preferences** > **New Features**.
* <a id="empty-caption"></a>We fixed a [known issue](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.23/#ki-empty-caption) where generating task pages for [user tasks](/refguide9/workflow-elements/#user-tasks) that had outcomes with captions defined on them resulted in outcome buttons with empty captions on the generated page.
* <a id="eclipse"></a>We fixed a [known issue](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.23/#ki-eclipse) with the M2EE Admin Console start-up when running from Eclipse.
* We fixed an issue where a data grid column with an attribute from a reference set showed empty entries for inaccessible objects in the comma-separated cell output in the client. (Ticket 141001)
* We fixed an issue where [Data Grid 2](/appstore/modules/data-grid-2/) became slower with pagination. (Ticket 164178)
* We fixed an issue where icons on the document changer and on document tabs were missing. The icons are now displayed again. (Ticket 171390)
* We fixed an issue where fields in the **App Settings** dialog box were not visible when the dialog box opened. (Ticket 172556)
* We fixed a bug that occurred when opening the properties of the **Show message** activity in the microflow editor. (Ticket 174522)
* Whe fixed an issue where calling a microflow or nanoflow after selecting a file in the [file manager](/refguide9/file-manager/) cleared the file. (Ticket 176285)
* We fixed an issue that occurred when the **Export to image** option was not enabled for the domain model, workflow, microflow, nanoflow, rule, and document template editors. (Ticket 177392)
* We fixed an issue with consumed OData services where retrieving the associated entities that had equivalent key fields and values led to unpredictable query results. (Ticket 177537)
* We fixed an issue where the sorting of a microflow or association data source in a pluggable widget (for example, Data Grid 2) resulted in unnecessary network requests. (Ticket 177792)
* We fixed an issue in published web services where a client addressing a service with a slash logged an error. Such a URL is always incorrect, so this now results in a client error and a debug log message. (Ticket 178489)
* We fixed an error that was shown when modifying excluded document templates. (Ticket 178508)
* We fixed an issue where templating was not being applied to JavaScript files in the **theme** folder, making it difficult to set up a content security policy (CSP) properly. (Ticket 178688)
* In Studio Pro [9.23](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.23/), we changed the mechanism to parse XPath constraints, which required the following fixes:
    * We fixed an issue where negative numbers resulted in an "Unknown function '-'." error. (Ticket 180161)
    * We fixed an issue where special characters (such as `!`, `#`, `%`, `^`, `&`, `*`) got lost while typing.
    * We fixed an issue where the autosuggestion list did not contain `[%CurrentUser%]`, `[%CurrentObject%]`, or `[%UserRole_...%]` suggestions where it could suggest them.
    * We fixed an issue where the autosuggestion list showed the wrong suggestions after a `System.owner/` or `System.changedBy` association.
* We replaced a third-party dependency to prevent false positives from security-vulnerability scanning tools.
* We fixed a bug in MxAssist Performance Bot where the missing index best practices [MXP003](/refguide9/performance-best-practices/#mxp003) and [MXP007](/refguide9/performance-best-practices/#mxp007) did not successfully complete the inspection, causing recommendations to be hidden.
* We fixed a bug where MxAssist Performance Bot recommendations were not marked as read when they were opened from inside a document.
* We fixed an issue where importing a module from Studio Pro [9.20](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.20/) or below did not correctly convert a snippet entity to a snippet parameter if the entity was defined in a domain model outside of the imported module.
* We fixed an issue where importing a module from Studio Pro [9.17](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.17/) or below did not correctly convert a page parameter if its entity was defined in a domain model outside of the imported module.
* We fixed an issue where after double-clicking a module in **App Explorer** and then quickly doing a right-click in another part of the UI that showed a context menu, the wrong context menu was displayed.
* We fixed the visual presentation of focus on toolbar items so that it looks consistent with other UI controls in Studio Pro.
* We fixed an issue where the icons of excluded documents were not semi-transparent in the **Go To** dialog box.
* We fixed an issue where elements on a properties dialog box were not positioned correctly when the dialog box was maximized.
* We fixed a bug in the grid control where copy-pasting a row in the grid only yielded partial results (meaning, it skipped values from drop-down columns).
* We fixed an issue where information dialog boxes stated that the selected document was missing or ambiguous but did not mention the type and name of the object.
* We fixed an issue where pressing <kbd>Delete</kbd> deleted a row in a data grid when a cell was in edit mode.
* We fixed an error in the text editor that occurred after adding a character like `&` and then immediately selecting a value to autocomplete.
* We fixed an erratic instance of text selection behavior that occurred in a disabled text box. 
* We fixed an error that appeared after a validation message in the **Properties** dialog box of a workflow activity.
* We fixed an error that appeared after clicking **OK** in the **JSON structure** dialog box.
* We fixed an error that appeared when you changed the access rules of an entity. 
* We fixed an issue where double-clicking the scroll bar in the **Branch Lines** grid led to opening a branch.
* We fixed an error that was shown when a settings file was copied from another computer or a user.
* We fixed an issue in the logging of calls to external services, which displayed the timeout setting as the remote port number. The logs now explicitly state the timeout value in seconds.
* We fixed an issue where an error in the expression editor was not shown upon opening a dialog box.
* We fixed the inconsistent behavior of selecting rows while holding <kbd>Shift</kbd> in the grid control.
* We fixed an issue that occurred when adding a string attribute in an entity in the domain model where it was possible to add a default text longer than the maximum text supported.

### Deprecations

In the [Mendix Runtime API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/runtime-api/), we did the following:

* We deprecated `Core.isSubClassOf` method variants. You can instead use the `IMendixObject.isInstanceOf(IMetaObject)`, `IMendixObject.isInstanceOf(String)`, `IMetaObject.isSubClassOf(IMetaObject)`, or `IMetaObject.isSubClassOf(String)` methods to achieve the same result.
* We deprecated the setter methods that were for internal use. We have provided constructors as an alternative for these methods wherever applicable.
* We deprecated the `com.mendix.core.Core.deleteAsync` methods. You can use the synchronous version or run the synchronous version in a task queue if needed. In addition, we introduced a delete method with events and with the `useDeleteBehavior` parameter as a replacement for calling `deleteAsync` with `useDeleteBehavior` set to false.
* We deprecated the async methods from `com.mendix.core.Core(changeAsync, commitAsync, instantiateAsync, rollbackAsync)`. These operations directly influence transactional behavior, for which the behavior is not stable if done asynchronously. If you do need to interact with the transaction, do so synchronously using the change, commit, instantiate, and rollback methods in the existing context.

### Breaking Changes

* We removed support for the `FileID` parameter in the File API.
* Due to a regular update of our Jetty server component, cookies are now correctly parsed according to the RFC-6265 standard. This can cause incorrectly formatted cookies to no longer be accepted.

### Known Issues

* <a name="be-ki"></a>Converting apps with business event services that were built with Studio Pro 9.23 and below to Studio Pro 9.24 causes a problem where the event name of subscribe events incorrectly also includes the prefix. This breaks the business event functionality and prevents apps from receiving events.
    * Fixed in [9.2.4.4](#be-ki-fix).
