---
title: "9.6"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/9.6/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro 9.6 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
weight: 94
---

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
The Studio Pro distribution contains a utility called `mx-cf-client`, which makes it possible to deploy a Mendix application to Cloud Foundry using Studio Pro. `mx-cf-client` contains a vulnerable `log4j-core` library. The only scenario in which this could be exploited is when the applicable Cloud Foundry server is untrusted or hacked.<br />
<br />
Studio Pro [9.6.7](#967) updated Apache Log4j libraries to 2.17.1, which addressed [CVE-2021-44832](https://cert-portal.siemens.com/productcert/pdf/ssa-784507.pdf). Version [9.6.5](#965) updated Apache Log4j libraries to 2.17.0, which addressed [CVE-2021-45105](https://cert-portal.siemens.com/productcert/pdf/ssa-501673.pdf). Version [9.6.4](#964) addressed [CVE-2021-44228 and CVE-2021-45046](https://cert-portal.siemens.com/productcert/pdf/ssa-714170.pdf) (for more details, see the [CVE-2021-44228 incident report](https://status.mendix.com/incidents/8j5043my610c)).<br />
<br />
As always, Mendix recommends updating to the latest Studio Pro version.<br />
<br />
If updating is not possible, customers using Log4j version 2.10–2.15 can set the `LOG4J_FORMAT_MSG_NO_LOOKUPS=”true”` environment variable to mitigate this vulnerability.
{{% /alert %}}

## 9.6.17 {#9617}

**Release date: May 1, 2023**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.6.17" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.6.17 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Fixes

* We mitigated [CVE-2023-30547](https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2023-30547) by upgrading the vm2 library. This CVE does not pose any apparent risk for Mendix customers.

### Deprecations

* We dropped support for MariaDB 10.2, as it is no longer supported by the vendor.

## 9.6.16 {#9616}

**Release date: April 13, 2023**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.6.16" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.6.16 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements

* We added support for the following database versions:
    * MariaDB 10.11
    * Microsoft SQL Server 2022
    * Oracle 21c
    * PostgreSQL 15

### Fixes

* We mitigated [CVE-2023-29017](https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2023-29017) by upgrading the vm2 library. This CVE does not pose any apparent risk for Mendix customers.
* We fixed an exception in the `from-dateTime` XPath functions and the `DATEPART` OQL function that occurred when using the built-in HSQLDB database. (Ticket 180239)
* We fixed an exception caused by loading a Microsoft Windows-specific styling file while running the **mx** command line tool with Mono.

### Deprecations

* We will drop support for MariaDB 10.3 after June 1, 2023, as it is no longer supported by the vendor.

### Breaking Changes

* We removed support for the `FileID` parameter in the File API.

## 9.6.15 {#9615}

**Release date: February 2, 2023**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.6.15" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.6.15 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements

* We upgraded to HSQLDB 2.7.1. As a result, Java functions can no longer be registered in the database.

### Fixes

* We fixed [CVE-2023-23835](/releasenotes/security-advisories/#23835).
* <a id="168024"></a>We fixed a [known issue](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.5/#ki-168024) where one-to-one associations were cleared incorrectly when there were multiple copies of the same object in microflow variables. (Ticket 168024)
* We fixed an issue with Arabic date/time format handling in HSQLDB. (Ticket 141313)
* We fixed an issue where **Refresh on show** for tabs was enabled but data was missing after revisiting the tab. (Tickets 150260).
* We fixed an issue where DateTime fields got incorrect values in OData services when receiving multiple simultaneous requests. (Ticket 170287)
* We fixed an issue where an argument of an **On change** action that was mapped to a snippet parameter threw an error when trying to deploy the app. (Ticket 174249)
* We fixed an issue in the `DATEDIFF()` function for HSQLDB where it was off by 1 day due to time zones.
* We fixed an issue where the time zone was displayed incorrectly as +2 (when it should have been +3) for Amman, Jordan and Damascus, Syria.

### Deprecations

* We dropped support for the following database versions that are no longer supported by the vendors:
    * PostgreSQL 10
    * SQL Server 2017
* Starting with version 9.6.17, we will drop support for MariaDB 10.2, as it is no longer supported by the vendor.

## 9.6.14 {#9614}

**Release date: November 1, 2022**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.6.14" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.6.14 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements

* Downloading files with a custom extension is now only allowed for users with write access to the file itself. (Ticket 167137)

### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where the periodic updating of sessions threw exceptions. (Ticket 162216)

### Known Issues

* There is a known issue for the scenario where there are multiple instances of the same identical object (meaning, with the same ID) assigned to different microflow variables, this object has a one-to-one association to another entity, and no changes have been made to the associated object. When you then set the association to the same value, only a single microflow variable points correctly to the new association, and the other variables have an empty association. (Ticket 168024)
    * Fixed in [9.6.15](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.6/#168024), [9.12.9](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.12/#168024), [9.18.4](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.18/#168024), and [9.22.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.22/#168024).

## 9.6.13 {#9613}

**Release date: October 4, 2022**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.6.13" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.6.13 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements

* The Studio Pro installer now uses Eclipse Adoptium JDK. This is used automatically if AdoptOpenJDK is not already installed.
* We upgraded the PostgreSQL driver to version 42.4.1.
* We added a parameter that can be used on *login.html* to redirect to another page after login.

### Fixes

* We introduced a workaround for a decimal-pad keyboard-disabled comma issue in Samsung devices that allows you to type a dot that will be replaced by a comma if the locale uses a comma as the decimal separator. (Tickets 116581, 155339)
* We fixed the search for XPaths in **Edit** > **Find Advanced** > **XPaths**, which did not always find all of them. (Ticket 144720)
* We now hide the auto-completion pop-up window of text editors when the containing dialog box is resized, moved, or deactivated by the user (meaning, the user switches to a different application, such as the browser). (Ticket 145062)
* We fixed an issue where data was not copied when copying and pasting from a grid where rows were not visible. (Tickets 151790, 165143)
* We fixed an issue where XML schema validation failed when there was an XML schema import element in the schema file. (Tickets 152436, 148726)
* We fixed an issue for the native mobile platform in which a list view widget that had an XPath data source configured with an entity path over an association did not correctly apply the constraint (or constraints). (Ticket 153011)
* We fixed an issue that caused the properties of a custom widget to appear in the wrong order after updating the widget. (Ticket 154455)
* We fixed an issue where temporary files used for image rotation were not closed. (Ticket 154992)
* We fixed an issue where the periodic updating of sessions threw exceptions. (Ticket 162216)
* We updated our image metadata extractor library and the micrometer library. (Ticket 163987)

### Deprecations

* Starting with version 9.6.15, we will drop support for the following database versions that are no longer supported by the vendors:
    * PostgreSQL 10
    * SQL Server 2017

### Known Issues

* There is a known issue for the scenario where there are multiple instances of the same identical object (meaning, with the same ID) assigned to different microflow variables, this object has a one-to-one association to another entity, and no changes have been made to the associated object. When you then set the association to the same value, only a single microflow variable points correctly to the new association, and the other variables have an empty association. (Ticket 168024)
    * Fixed in [9.6.15](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.6/#168024), [9.12.9](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.12/#168024), [9.18.4](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.18/#168024), and [9.22.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.22/#168024).

## 9.6.12 {#9612}

**Release date: June 13, 2022**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.6.12" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.6.12 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Fixes

* We fixed [CVE-2022-31257](/releasenotes/security-advisories/#31257).
* We fixed [CVE-2022-27241](/releasenotes/security-advisories/#27241).
* We fixed an issue where a conversion dialog box appeared when loading an MPR, even though the app was already converted. (Ticket 136910)
* We fixed an issue where the hidden aggregate columns of a data grid crashed the page. (Ticket 145306)
* We fixed an issue where layout arguments overlapped, making it difficult to add widgets to them. (Ticket 149524)
* We fixed an issue in MySQL 8.0.29 and above that occurred when dropping a column with a name length over 53 characters long.
* We fixed a bug where a button with no action attached did not trigger a parent container action when clicked.

### Breaking Changes

* We now block changes to the **Password** attribute of User and User-derived objects in client commits (for example, via the Save button in forms). The old behavior is deprecated but can be restored until Mendix 10 by setting the `BlockPasswordInClientCommit` custom setting to `false`.

### Known Issues

* There is a known issue for the scenario where there are multiple instances of the same identical object (meaning, with the same ID) assigned to different microflow variables, this object has a one-to-one association to another entity, and no changes have been made to the associated object. When you then set the association to the same value, only a single microflow variable points correctly to the new association, and the other variables have an empty association. (Ticket 168024)
    * Fixed in [9.6.15](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.6/#168024), [9.12.9](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.12/#168024), [9.18.4](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.12/#168024), and [9.22.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.22/#168024).

## 9.6.11 {#9611}

**Release date: April 7, 2022**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.6.11" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.6.11 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements

* To make management of file storage more flexible, we extended the `performDeleteFromStorage` Mendix Runtime setting. This change also allows for getting rid of unnecessary log messages about unreferenced files delete failures. (Ticket 139266).

### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where navigation was broken if a user tried to navigate during a page transition. (Ticket 105484)
* We fixed an issue where the import mapping selected an incorrect version of the Xerces library that resulted in a Java error. (Ticket 141679)
* We fixed a `NullPointerException` during startup that occurred after renaming a module with an external entity that was created before Studio Pro [9.6.3](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.6/#963). (Ticket 142150)
* We fixed an issue where offline PWA users lost their valid sessions upon a new deployment. (Ticket 144836)
* We fixed an issue with native list views and pagination. Native list views did not become scrollable if the initial number of items was not overflowing, which rendered "scroll to load more" unusable. Now, native list views attempt to load as many items as they can to fill their content. The pagination limits are respected for any "scroll to load more" event thereafter.

### Known Issues

* There is a known issue for the scenario where there are multiple instances of the same identical object (meaning, with the same ID) assigned to different microflow variables, this object has a one-to-one association to another entity, and no changes have been made to the associated object. When you then set the association to the same value, only a single microflow variable points correctly to the new association, and the other variables have an empty association. (Ticket 168024)
    * Fixed in [9.6.15](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.6/#168024), [9.12.9](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.12/#168024), [9.18.4](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.18/#168024), and [9.22.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.22/#168024).

## 9.6.10 {#9610}

**Release date: March 14, 2022**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.6.10" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.6.10 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements

* We added the possibility to specify the BCrypt cost when configuring the hash algorithm via a custom setting. To do this, use the value `BCRYPT:cost` for the setting `HashAlgorithm`, where `cost` can be a value from 10 to 30. If you only specify the value `BCRYPT`, a default `cost` value will be used.
* In [9.6.8](#136429), we fixed an issue where an exception was thrown when decoding Base64 binary data with special characters. We have introduced the new `com.mendix.core.UseMimeDecoderForBase64` runtime setting to be able to decode the MIME type of Base64. (Ticket 136429)
* We now support MariaDB 10.6.

### Fixes

* We fixed an issue that caused exceptions on non-leader cluster nodes after starting them for the first time after a domain model change. (Tickets 138387, 140298)
* We fixed an issue where an offline [progressive web app](/refguide9/progressive-web-app/) got an error when trying to connect to Mendix Runtime after closing the browser and re-launching the app. (Tickets 139230, 143392)
* We fixed an issue where combining a [Close page](/refguide9/close-page/) activity with an editable-column data grid widget threw errors. (Ticket 140660)
* We fixed a bug where a fast re-deploy at development time did not generate newly added pages correctly. This resulted in bundling failures or red screens that could only be solved by a full deployment of the app. Now, fast re-deploy again correctly generates all the affected pages.
* We fixed a bug where some auto-generated files caused conflicting changes that needed to be resolved manually.

### Known Issues

* There is a known issue for the scenario where there are multiple instances of the same identical object (meaning, with the same ID) assigned to different microflow variables, this object has a one-to-one association to another entity, and no changes have been made to the associated object. When you then set the association to the same value, only a single microflow variable points correctly to the new association, and the other variables have an empty association. (Ticket 168024)
    * Fixed in [9.6.15](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.6/#168024), [9.12.9](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.12/#168024), [9.18.4](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.18/#168024), and [9.22.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.22/#168024).

## 9.6.9 {#969}

**Release date: February 17, 2022**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.6.9" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.6.9 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements

* We improved the text input focus behavior in native apps. Previously, tapping outside the input committed the value but did not blur the input or call the on-leave event. In some cases (for example, when the input was part of a form wrapped in a scroll view), the input could retake focus from any other element the user might have tapped, triggering unexpected platform-dependent behavior. From now on, tapping outside the input will trigger an on-blur event on the native component and trigger the on-leave event. This allows for more coherent platform-independent behavior when a text input is blurred by tapping outside of it. (Ticket 140065) 
* We changed the way [dangling references](/refguide9/mobile/building-efficient-mobile-apps/offlinefirst-data/synchronization/#dangling-references) are handled during the synchronization process. A dangling reference error can occur when trying to synchronize a committed object that is associated with an uncommitted object. Synchronization used to be prevented from starting if the set of objects to be synchronized contained an object with a dangling reference, and an error message was then shown on the device. Now, synchronization is not stopped when such an error occurs. Instead, all objects are synchronized except ones with dangling references, for which **System.SynchronizationError** records are created in the runtime database that contain the data of the uncommitted objects.

### Fixes

* <a id="2102"></a>We fixed a [known issue](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.0/#ki-2102) where you could not copy, paste, or delete using keyboard shortcuts in the **Properties** pane. (Tickets 126003, 139441, 141303)
* We fixed an issue where synchronizing objects in an offline-first progressive web app failed along with an "Autocommitted objects detected at end of transaction for long-lived user session" message that was logged. (Tickets 133154, 136135, 137319)
* We fixed sorting by multiple attributes in an Excel export of a data grid. (Ticket 136239)
* We fixed an issue where you could not type a space in a text box widget wrapped by a container widget with an on-click event. (Ticket 139090)

### Known Issues

* There is a known issue for the scenario where there are multiple instances of the same identical object (meaning, with the same ID) assigned to different microflow variables, this object has a one-to-one association to another entity, and no changes have been made to the associated object. When you then set the association to the same value, only a single microflow variable points correctly to the new association, and the other variables have an empty association. (Ticket 168024)
    * Fixed in [9.6.15](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.6/#168024), [9.12.9](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.12/#168024), [9.18.4](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.18/#168024), and [9.22.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.22/#168024).

## 9.6.8 {#968}

**Release date: February 2, 2022**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.6.8" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.6.8 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Fixes

* <a id="1720"></a>We fixed a [known issue](#ki-1720) where styling file changes did not trigger a recompilation of the app styling anymore.
* We fixed an issue where the **REST Service** dialog box shifted upwards when adding a new resource. (Ticket 130238)
* <a id="136429"></a>We fixed an issue where import-mapping a binary file with Base64 MIME encoding failed. (Ticket 136429)
* A pluggable widget configured with an association, microflow, or nanoflow data source could not be filtered correctly when some attribute values were empty. This has been fixed. (Tickets 136438, 139549)
* We fixed an issue where client certificates with empty passwords could not be used. (Ticket 137950)
* We fixed an issue where changed objects that have a reference to a system attribute were not garbage-collected when no longer in use. (Ticket 138167)
* We made the **Create Variable** dialog box resizable.

### Known Issues

* There is a known issue for the scenario where there are multiple instances of the same identical object (meaning, with the same ID) assigned to different microflow variables, this object has a one-to-one association to another entity, and no changes have been made to the associated object. When you then set the association to the same value, only a single microflow variable points correctly to the new association, and the other variables have an empty association. (Ticket 168024)
    * Fixed in [9.6.15](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.6/#168024), [9.12.9](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.12/#168024), [9.18.4](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.18/#168024), and [9.22.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.22/#168024).
* In the **Properties** pane, you cannot copy, paste, or delete using keyboard shortcuts.
    * Fixed in [9.6.9](#2102).

## 9.6.7 {#967}

**Release date: January 18, 2022**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.6.7" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.6.7 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Fixes

* We upgraded the Cloud Foundry client (`mx-cf-client`) by updating Apache Log4j libraries to 2.17.1, which addresses [CVE-2021-44832](https://cert-portal.siemens.com/productcert/pdf/ssa-784507.pdf).
* We fixed an issue where re-rendering a [widgets property](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/pluggable-widgets-property-types/#widgets) linked to the [datasource](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/pluggable-widgets-property-types/#datasource) of a pluggable widget no longer rendered its contents properly. (Tickets 132842, 134061)
* We fixed an issue where changes to an app theme with many files were no longer automatically reloaded in the client. (Ticket 137980)
* We fixed a bug with the [Auto-synchronize](/refguide9/on-click-event/#save-changes) option in online profiles that caused a crash when the action was used. (Ticket 138115)
* We fixed a bug where deployment failed when a [List operation](/refguide9/list-operation/) activity with a sort operation was used in a nanoflow. This bug occurred when the list was sorted based on an attribute defined in one of the generalizations of the sorted entity. (Ticket 138310) 
* We fixed a race condition in deletes with optimistic locking that manifested itself in critical task queue errors. (Ticket 138351)
* We fixed an issue where switching between tab pages with the [Refresh on show](/refguide9/tab-container/#refresh) property set to **Yes** no longer displayed its contents correctly. (Ticket 139078)
* We fixed an issue in MxAssist Logic Bot where the microflow call action could not be inserted if the exposed microflow existed in the app.
* We fixed an issue where Studio Pro became unresponsive if compiling the app's theme never finished.
* We fixed a backward-compatibility issue where a native mobile app made with a version below 9.4.0 did not start up when connecting to Mendix Runtime version 9.4.0 or above.
* We fixed an issue with native mobile apps that prevented an app from starting when a user had unsynchronized changes and was implicitly logged out. In such a case, it was possible for startup synchronization to fail to complete due to user access rights with no actionable mitigation path.

### Breaking Changes

* When accessing the contents of file documents, access rules on the **Contents** attribute are now checked instead of relying on entity access alone.

### Known Issues

* There is a known issue for the scenario where there are multiple instances of the same identical object (meaning, with the same ID) assigned to different microflow variables, this object has a one-to-one association to another entity, and no changes have been made to the associated object. When you then set the association to the same value, only a single microflow variable points correctly to the new association, and the other variables have an empty association. (Ticket 168024)
    * Fixed in [9.6.15](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.6/#168024), [9.12.9](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.12/#168024), [9.18.4](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.18/#168024), and [9.22.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.22/#168024).
* In the **Properties** pane, you cannot copy, paste, or delete using keyboard shortcuts.
    * Fixed in [9.6.9](#2102).
* <a id="ki-1720"></a>The auto-compilation of app styling (when changing styling files while running your app locally) does not work.
    * Fixed in [9.6.8](#1720).

## 9.6.6 {#966}

**Release date: December 29, 2021**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.6.6" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.6.6 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where buttons from the **Save Changes** pop-up window went off-screen if there were a lot of unsaved changes. (Ticket 134136)
* We fixed an issue where user credentials containing spaces caused unexpected failures when committing changes for Git private server apps. (Ticket 136237)
* We fixed an issue where setting multiple entity access rules at the same time resulted in an error where no access rights were defined. (Ticket 136705).
* We fixed an issue that caused the Workflow Engine to hang in a [parallel split](/refguide9/parallel-split/) with huge workflow definitions. (Ticket 137269)
* We fixed an issue where an error occurred when trying to update the access rules in [App Security](/refguide9/app-security/).
* We fixed an issue where the Branch Line Manager closed when an empty area was clicked and the **Open App** dialog box froze.

### Known Issues

* There is a known issue for the scenario where there are multiple instances of the same identical object (meaning, with the same ID) assigned to different microflow variables, this object has a one-to-one association to another entity, and no changes have been made to the associated object. When you then set the association to the same value, only a single microflow variable points correctly to the new association, and the other variables have an empty association. (Ticket 168024)
    * Fixed in [9.6.15](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.6/#168024), [9.12.9](/releasenotes/studio-pro**Open App** dialog box4), [9.18.4](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.18/#168024), and [9.22.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.22/#168024).
* In the **Properties** pane, you cannot copy, paste, or delete using keyboard shortcuts.
    * Fixed in [9.6.9](#2102).

## 9.6.5 {#965}

**Release date: December 22, 2021**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.6.5" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.6.5 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements

* This update enables Studio Pro to run on Apple Silicon Macs, such as the M1. Studio Pro is now enabled and tested to run on all Macs using Parallels 17 and Windows 11.

### Fixes

* We upgraded the Cloud Foundry client (`mx-cf-client`) by updating Apache Log4j libraries to 2.17.0, which addresses [CVE-2021-45105](https://cert-portal.siemens.com/productcert/pdf/ssa-501673.pdf).
* We fixed the autocomplete pop-up window that got stuck upon closing a text editor (for example, with an XPath constraint). This pop-up window is now closed once the text editor loses focus. (Tickets 136553, 137368)
* We fixed a `NullPointerException` that occurred when retrieving data from an external entity after an application restart. (Ticket 137565)

### Known Issues

* There is a known issue for the scenario where there are multiple instances of the same identical object (meaning, with the same ID) assigned to different microflow variables, this object has a one-to-one association to another entity, and no changes have been made to the associated object. When you then set the association to the same value, only a single microflow variable points correctly to the new association, and the other variables have an empty association. (Ticket 168024)
    * Fixed in [9.6.15](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.6/#168024), [9.12.9](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.12/#168024), [9.18.4](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.18/#168024), and [9.22.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.22/#168024).
* In the **Properties** pane, you cannot copy, paste, or delete using keyboard shortcuts.
    * Fixed in [9.6.9](#2102).

## 9.6.4 {#964}

**Release date: December 17, 2021**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.6.4" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.6.4 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements

* We improved the generated metadata of [published OData services](/refguide9/published-odata-services/). When all navigation properties are updatable, the **NonUpdatableNavigationProperties** capability is now omitted instead of specifying it as an empty collection.
* We updated the regions for [Language Settings](/refguide9/language-settings/).

### Fixes

* <a id="44228"></a>We upgraded the Cloud Foundry client (`mx-cf-client`) used to deploy Mendix applications from Mendix Studio Pro to compromised Cloud Foundry services by updating Apache Log4j libraries to 2.16.0, which addresses [CVE-2021-44228 and CVE-2021-45046](https://cert-portal.siemens.com/productcert/pdf/ssa-714170.pdf).
* <a id="5169"></a>We fixed three issues in the generated metadata of published OData services. Due to these changes, previous Studio Pro versions as well as versions [9.7.x](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.7/) and [9.8.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.8/#980) are not able to read metadata produced by this Studio Pro version. The Mendix Runtime is unaffected. When updating the contract of a [consumed OData service](/refguide9/consumed-odata-services/), upgrading to version [9.6.4](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.6/#964), [9.8.1](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.8/#981), or [9.9.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.9/#990) or later is recommended. These are the three fixes:
    * `NonUpdatable(Navigation)Properties` are now specified as a collection of `(Navigation)PropertyPath` (and not as a collection of String).
    * `UpdateMethod` is now specified as an Enum value (and not as an Int).
    * `SupportedFormats` is now a collection of String (and not a simple String)
* We fixed an issue where the [Auto Load More](/appstore/widgets/auto-load-more/) widget did not work as expected together with a list view. (Ticket 132953)
* We fixed an issue that occurred with a reference selector that set a reference to an uncommitted object where that object could not be retrieved over association in a microflow. (Tickets 131593, 133345, 134576, 135463, 137455)
* We fixed an issue that occurred when reading the metadata of a consumed OData service where (navigation) properties marked as non-updatable in the metadata appeared to be updatable.
* We fixed an issue in [published OData services](/refguide9/published-odata-services/) that occurred while generating metadata XML. The `Name` property in the `EntityContainer` section can no longer contain a slash (`/`).
* When you open an app from a network path or from a drive in a Mac (both of which will contain double backslashes (`\\`) in the beginning of the file path), a warning is shown to tell you about potential issues that might cause and asks if you wants to proceed anyway.
* We fixed a bug where dialog boxes increased in height after an edit was done on the dialog box itself when the app was version-controlled.

### Deprecations

* Starting with version 9.6.6, we will drop support for DB2 version 11.1.

### Known Issues

* There is a known issue for the scenario where there are multiple instances of the same identical object (meaning, with the same ID) assigned to different microflow variables, this object has a one-to-one association to another entity, and no changes have been made to the associated object. When you then set the association to the same value, only a single microflow variable points correctly to the new association, and the other variables have an empty association. (Ticket 168024)
    * Fixed in [9.6.15](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.6/#168024), [9.12.9](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.12/#168024), [9.18.4](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.18/#168024), and [9.22.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.22/#168024).
* In the **Properties** pane, you cannot copy, paste, or delete using keyboard shortcuts.
    * Fixed in [9.6.9](#2102).

## 9.6.3 {#963}

**Release date: December 2, 2021**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.6.3" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.6.3 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements

* We added support for PostgreSQL 14.
* [MxAssist Logic Bot](/refguide9/mx-assist-logic-bot/) now triggers notifications so you can be notified about improvements.
* Ordering by associated attribute now also works in DB2 and SAP HANA and thereby in all supported databases.
* This release includes a [new version](https://www.mendix.com/blog/mendix-mxassist-logic-bot-upgrade/) of [the MxAssist Logic Bot](/refguide9/mx-assist-logic-bot/) with major improvements in the AI model, UI and UX, and performance! Check out these details:
    * The AI model has been re-trained with a fresh and substantially bigger dataset that includes more context-related features, microflow actions, and parameters. These have improved the recommendation accuracy, especially the top (first) recommendation.
    * The user interface has been completely redesigned with better integration and interaction with the microflow editor UI to avoid any overlaps. In addition, new controls and interfaces are introduced to give more control to the users. 
    * The user interface responsiveness and interaction is now faster thanks to several performance optimizations that have reduced server calls by 92% and user CPU usage by 35% on average. The Logic Bot microservice is also deployed in more regions to reduce network latency.

### Fixes

* We fixed [CVE-2022-25650](/releasenotes/security-advisories/#25650).
* We fixed an issue where a background application window was focused after a notification disappeared. (Ticket 125320)
* We fixed an issue in the runtime of [published OData services](/refguide9/published-odata-services/) where the microflow of an exposed virtual attribute retrieved objects by association and that list was empty. (Ticket 128843)
* We added several document types to the export feature available via [App Explorer](/refguide9/app-explorer/) > **App** > **Export documentation**: [module roles](/refguide9/module-security/#module-role), [pages](/refguide9/pages/), [constants](/refguide9/constants/), [import mappings](/refguide9/import-mappings/) and [export mappings](/refguide9/export-mappings/), [consumed web services](/refguide9/consumed-web-services/) and [published web services](/refguide9/published-web-services/), [snippets](/refguide9/snippet/), and [scheduled events](/refguide9/scheduled-events/). (Ticket 129854)
* We fixed an issue where Mendix Runtime did not start after a module containing an external entity was replaced. (Ticket 131331)
* We fixed an error with the XPath constraints of the `[$object/flag]` form when `$object` is empty. (Ticket 132531)
* We fixed an issue where resuming Free Apps failed. (Ticket 132915)
* We fixed an issue that occurred with the [data grid](/refguide9/data-grid/) inline editor while using non-persistable entities. (Ticket 133700)
* We fixed an issue where the [Synchronize](/refguide9/synchronize/) nanoflow action with the **Unsynchronized objects** mode did not update the runtime database for objects that had been created on the device and synchronized with the runtime in the same session. (Ticket 133910)
* We fixed an issue in the App Explorer where the active item selection border was not displayed when all nodes were expanded. (Ticket 134616)
* We fixed an issue where it was not possible to paste when inline-editing a caption in the page editor's **Structure mode**. (Ticket 134741)
* We fixed an exception that occurred when starting apps with specific app file sizes. (Ticket 135034)
* We fixed an issue in the **Open App** dialog box where version-controlled apps that were not checked out locally were displayed as **Unversioned** and had a default SVN icon (even when those apps were under the Git version control system).
* We fixed another issue in the **Open App** dialog box so branches are ordered with the main branch displayed first.
* We fixed an issue with resizing dialog boxes that contain expression editors. Now, these editors scale according to the size of the dialog box.
* When using DB2, the `DATEDIFF` OQL function now correctly returns negative values where applicable.
* We fixed the functionality of selecting a **Data Type** item via keyboard shortcuts.
* We fixed an issue where was possible to select all tree items using <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>A</kbd>.
* We fixed a bug with native apps where top-level exceptions did not trigger the fatal error handler correctly when they happened early in the startup process.

### Known Issues

* There is a known issue for the scenario where there are multiple instances of the same identical object (meaning, with the same ID) assigned to different microflow variables, this object has a one-to-one association to another entity, and no changes have been made to the associated object. When you then set the association to the same value, only a single microflow variable points correctly to the new association, and the other variables have an empty association. (Ticket 168024)
    * Fixed in [9.6.15](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.6/#168024), [9.12.9](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.12/#168024), [9.18.4](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.18/#168024), and [9.22.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.22/#168024).
* In the **Properties** pane, you cannot copy, paste, or delete using keyboard shortcuts.
    * Fixed in [9.6.9](#2102).
* Registration of updatable OData resources in the Catalog does not work when the [Updatable (write)](/refguide9/published-odata-resource/#capabilities) capability is enabled for a published OData service.
    * Fixed in [9.6.4](#5169) and [9.8.1](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.8/#5169).

## 9.6.2 {#962}

**Release date: November 3, 2021**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.6.2" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.6.2 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements

* We added an **Expand All** button to the toolbar of the [Toolbox](/refguide9/view-menu/#toolbox) in the tile view.
* We reorganized the toolbars of the [App Explorer](/refguide9/app-explorer/), [Data Hub pane](/refguide9/data-hub-pane/), [Connector](/refguide9/view-menu/#connector), **Toolbox**, and selector dialog boxes to save more vertical screen space for the content.
* We upgraded the SVG library to version 3.3.0.

### Fixes

* We fixed [CVE-2021-42026](/releasenotes/security-advisories/#42026) and [CVE-2021-42025](/releasenotes/security-advisories/#42025).
* We fixed an issue where the expand button was sometimes displayed in the **Select Entity** dialog box for an entity without another associated entity. (Ticket 127417).
* We fixed an issue where imported SVG images appeared in the black color. (Ticket 130343)
* We fixed an issue where invalid SVG files in the image collection crashed Studio Pro while publishing an app. (Ticket 131378)
* We fixed the text color of folders in the tree view of various menus (like App Explorer) that appears when you are moving the folders to a new location.
* We fixed an issue with the selected item in App Explorer that occurred when you start an app.
* We fixed an issue in the Toolbox where the search box retained its former value after switching the active document or the view mode.

### Known Issues

* There is a known issue for the scenario where there are multiple instances of the same identical object (meaning, with the same ID) assigned to different microflow variables, this object has a one-to-one association to another entity, and no changes have been made to the associated object. When you then set the association to the same value, only a single microflow variable points correctly to the new association, and the other variables have an empty association. (Ticket 168024)
    * Fixed in [9.6.15](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.6/#168024), [9.12.9](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.12/#168024), [9.18.4](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.18/#168024), and [9.22.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.22/#168024).
* In the **Properties** pane, you cannot copy, paste, or delete using keyboard shortcuts.
    * Fixed in [9.6.9](#2102).

## 9.6.1 {#961}

**Release date: October 19, 2021**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.6.1" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.6.1 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Fixes

* We fixed [CVE-2021-42015](/releasenotes/security-advisories/#42015). (Ticket 126829)
* <a id="1854"></a>We fixed a [known issue](#ki-1854) in the access rule dialog box where the selected access rights were lost when scrolling through the list. (Tickets 131581, 131605, 131961, 131976, 132074, 132080)
* <a id="1292"></a>We fixed a [known issue](#ki-1292) where the main line of a Git project was incorrectly determined. This also fixes the branch switching functionality in Branch Line Manager.
* <a id="updatable"></a>We fixed a [known issue](#ki-updatable) that occurred when publishing updatable OData resources. Clients could use these to update other objects that had some of the same attributes, but only when the current user had all the privileges to do so.
* We fixed an issue where a list view failed if attributes of an associated entity were retrieved and two objects of the main entity were linked to the same object of that associated entity. (Ticket 126507)
* We fixed an issue where selecting a page of the [reference selector](/refguide9/reference-selector/) did not work properly for specialized entities when the user had no access to the generalized entity. (Ticket 128755)
* We fixed an issue that occurred when retrieving data for a data view listening to a list view. (Ticket 129494)
* We fixed an issue where there was a significant lag in Studio Pro when a background error check was running. (Tickets 131412, 131591)
* We fixed an issue where database synchronization failed when migrating or copying a database from a Studio Pro version between 8.7 and 8.12 to a Studio Pro 9 version.
* We resolved some issues with button focus and the handling of the <kbd>Tab</kbd> key in the new [Open App](/refguide9/open-app-dialog/) dialog box.
* We improved the branch line names that are displayed in the title bar and recent apps list.
* We fixed an issue where the Branch Line Manager incorrectly showed the branch lines of an uninitialized app.
* We fixed an issue where Studio Pro hung when using [Find](/refguide9/find-and-find-advanced/) then subsequently **Find Advanced**.

### Improvement

* It is now possible to create and delete branches for [Team Server Git](/refguide9/preferences-dialog/) version apps downloaded in Studio Pro [9.6.0](#960). You are also not able to see information about Mendix Studio collaboration in the Studio Pro UI.
    * Workaround: Re-download the app using Studio Pro 9.6.1 or above.

### Known Issues

* There is a known issue for the scenario where there are multiple instances of the same identical object (meaning, with the same ID) assigned to different microflow variables, this object has a one-to-one association to another entity, and no changes have been made to the associated object. When you then set the association to the same value, only a single microflow variable points correctly to the new association, and the other variables have an empty association. (Ticket 168024)
    * Fixed in [9.6.15](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.6/#168024), [9.12.9](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.12/#168024), [9.18.4](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.18/#168024), and [9.22.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.22/#168024).
* In the **Properties** pane, you cannot copy, paste, or delete using keyboard shortcuts.
    * Fixed in [9.6.9](#2102).

## 9.6.0 {#960}

**Release date: September 28, 2021**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/9.6.0" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 9.6.0 from the Marketplace" %}}

{{% alert color="info" %}}
For more information on this release, see the [Release 9.6 – Makes Your Mendix World Spin](https://www.mendix.com/blog/release-9-6-makes-your-mendix-world-spin/) blog post.
{{% /alert %}}

### New Features

#### Updated Studio Pro Look and Feel {#studio-pro-new-design}

We are continuously improving your Studio Pro experience, and we made a big step with version [9.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.0/) to modernize the UI. This release contains further major improvements.

When you start Studio Pro, there is a new UI to make selecting and managing your versions more intuitive and simpler. We also have a redesigned place for your apps.

Next to that, we did a full overhaul of the [Toolbox](/refguide9/view-menu/#toolbox). Besides the current list view to display widgets, microflow actions, and other items, there is now a tile view which shows larger icons. This makes it easier to recognize the actions and adds more consistency with Mendix Studio. We have also revised the widget categories of the **Toolbox** in the page editor, removing the suffix "widgets" and aligning the naming with Mendix Studio. Finally, for building blocks, the tile view will show a preview of the building block, which gives a better impression of it. In your **Toolbox**, you can easily switch between the list view and the tile view based on your preference.

Finally, we have redesigned the [App Explorer](/refguide9/app-explorer/) with a new visual hierarchy that will help you find your documents even faster and that provides a modern and consistent look and feel.

#### OData and Data Hub 

When you publish an [OData service](/refguide9/published-odata-services/), you can now indicate that you allow clients to update attributes.

When you use [external entities](/refguide9/external-entities/) to consume an OData service, you can now change attribute values and send those values to the publishing service. This works for published OData services that support updates.

The [Data Hub pane](/refguide9/data-hub-pane/) now shows for every entity which CRUD (creatable, readable, updatable, deletable) capabilities the entity supports. It will mark a capability as highlighted when the combination of the data source and Studio Pro supports it. As of this version, that means readable and updatable, but we will add more in upcoming releases.

#### Custom Metrics

The [Core.Metrics API](/refguide9/metrics/) and corresponding [microflow activities](/refguide9/metrics-activities/) are now available.

Whether you want to measure usage of parts of your app or go as far as implementing usage-based invoicing, now you can! Set up incrementing counters or use scheduled events for a recurring absolute count and keep track with minimum effort.

Data for your custom metrics can be retrieved from [Micrometer](https://micrometer.io/docs/), a metrics instrumentation library, and imported into various tools such as Datadog or Prometheus. Set up filters for different registries to ensure specific data ends up in the right place.

#### Other New Features

* We have made the [Change workflow state](/refguide9/change-workflow-state/) microflow activity available, which allows you to add, abort, restart, continue, pause, and resume actions for a [workflow](/refguide9/workflows/) and control workflow instances.
* As of this release, it is possible to start apps on the Git edition of the Team Server through Studio Pro. For more information on how to enable this feature, see [Preferences](/refguide9/preferences-dialog/#new-features). This feature is currently in [beta](/releasenotes/beta-features/).

### Improvements

* We have improved the speed of garbage collection by up to 100x in some cases. (Ticket 125380)
* You can now use the [tab container](/refguide9/tab-container/) widget inside a [containment or repeatable containment](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/pluggable-widgets-property-types/#widgets) pluggable widget.
* You can now drag a microflow from the **App Explorer** into the editor and it will create a new system task automatically.
* We renamed the **Image** and **Image Viewer** core widgets to [Static Image](/refguide9/image/) and [Dynamic Image](/refguide9/image-viewer/), respectively.
* We fixed an issue in the runtime of a [published REST service](/refguide9/published-rest-services/) where an unparsable header resulted in a "500 Internal Server Error." It now returns a "400 bad request" error.
* You can now define an error handler microflow for [consumed OData services](/refguide9/consumed-odata-services/). When the service returns a failure or does not return a response at all, this microflow decides which message to show the user.
* We now show which services are validated in the [Data Hub pane](/refguide9/data-hub-pane/). This corresponds to the services that are marked as validated in the [Catalog](/catalog/).
* We now have a redesigned tree style that is already active in the **App Explorer**, **Toolbox**, [consumed web service](/refguide9/consumed-web-service/) page, and general selectors.
* We now execute queued tasks in a context equivalent to the one in which they were created. Executing in the system context is deprecated, and a one-way project setting has been introduced for this.
* We added the `reload()` method to the [List Values API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/pluggable-widgets-client-apis-list-values/#listvalue-reload) to fetch the underlying data source again.
* We now show an icon on microflow and Java action calls when they run in the background.

### Fixes

* <a id="2036"></a>We fixed a [known issue](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.0/#ki-2036) where you could not use <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Tab</kbd> to switch between open tabs unless you had already selected a tab.
* <a id="315"></a>We fixed a [known issue](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.3/#ki-315) with the exporting of user metrics that resulted in the [User Accounts and Login Sessions](/developerportal/operate/metrics/#Trends-appmxruntimesessions) graph being empty for apps deployed to Mendix Cloud.
* We fixed an issue in the Marketplace where the **Show** filter setting was not taken into account when searching. (Ticket 93566)
* We fixed a bug in native mobile where list views with on-click events required two taps to trigger the event when the keyboard was visible. (Ticket 120695)
* We fixed a `NullPointerException` that occurred when the same project MDA was deployed with reduced permissions in SQL Server. (Ticket 122465)
* We removed the option to use the Japanese (Imperial calendar) language in new apps, as it was not supported by our dates library. (Ticket 123609)
* We fixed an issue where opening the edit dialog box for a [cross-module association](/refguide9/associations/#creating) threw an error when one of the associated entities was deleted. (Ticket 127847)
* We fixed an issue that occurred on a reference selector that used a microflow for the selectable objects and contained an explicit parameter mapping to a page variable. (Ticket 128047)
* We fixed the failing synchronization that occurred when a one-to-one or one-to-many association was renamed to an existing association that was removed. (Ticket 128052)
* We fixed an issue where calling a microflow failed if `$currentUser/System.owner` was used in an expression. (Tickets 128550, 128870)
* We fixed an issue where a list view widget did not update the listening widgets when the item selection changed through key presses. (Ticket 129128)
* We fixed an issue in the JSON exporter where a "null" string was exported as a JSON null value. (Ticket 129742)
* We fixed an issue where you could not commit because of a security error. (Ticket 129493, 129605, 129902)
* The main line in the [Branch Line Manager](/refguide9/branch-line-manager-dialog/) dialog box is now always shown. (Ticket 132361)
* We fixed an issue where the [Call microflow](/refguide9/call-microflow/) task in the workflow editor lost values when a new parameter was added to the underlying microflow.
* We fixed an issue where a role-based conditional visibility was ignored for the tabs of the [tab container](/refguide9/tab-container/) widget in native apps.
* We fixed an issue where adding an association to an external entity from the **Association** tab of that entity gave an error message.
* We fixed an issue where [MxAssist Logic Bot](/refguide9/mx-assist-studio-pro/) displayed slightly stale recommendations if calls to a microflow were recently added or removed from another microflow.
* We fixed an issue in the MXP006 [MxAssist Performance Bot](/refguide9/mx-assist-performance-bot/) recommendation to convert a microflow to a nanoflow in which the microflow being converted *directly* used a variable that was not available when converted to a nanoflow.
* We fixed a crash that occurred when opening an uninitialized app from the [Most Recent](/developerportal/#my-apps) apps list.
* We fixed an issue with range validations in which a bound was based on an attribute. If either the attribute or the range bound attribute was of type Decimal and the other was of a different numeric type, the validation always failed.

### Breaking Changes

#### Modifications to the Workflow Data Model

We introduced workflows as a beta feature in Studio Pro [9.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.0/) and have received great feedback from our community. You were eager to test it out and provide us with your point of view on how to further improve the functionality, and we have made improvements in this release. For information on how to migrate the existing apps with workflows, see [Migrating Workflow Apps](/refguide9/workflow-beta-migration/).

##### System Module Changes

* **WorkflowInstance** entity is renamed to **Workflow**.
* **WorkflowTaskDefinition** is renamed to **WorkflowUserTaskDefinition**.
* All related associations are renamed.
* **WorkflowAdministrator** user role is removed.
* The **WorkflowContext**, **SystemTask**, **WorkflowTaskInstance**, and **WorkflowVersion** entities are removed.
* You are now able to create specializations of the **Workflow** and **WorkflowUserTask** entities.

##### Workflow Design Changes

* Each **Workflow** now requires its own specialization of the **Workflow** entity.
* **Workflow context** is now a regular entity that has to be associated to the **Workflow** entity.
* Each user task now requires its own specialization of the **WorkflowUserTask** entity.
* Security for the **Workflow** and **WorkflowUserTask** entities are now configured at the entity level.

### Deprecations

* We will drop support for [PostgreSQL 9.6](/refguide9/system-requirements/#databases) after Studio Pro 9.8. The exact date will be coordinated with migration of our [Mendix Cloud](/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy/) environment to a newer version of PostgreSQL.

### Known Issues

* There is a known issue for the scenario where there are multiple instances of the same identical object (meaning, with the same ID) assigned to different microflow variables, this object has a one-to-one association to another entity, and no changes have been made to the associated object. When you then set the association to the same value, only a single microflow variable points correctly to the new association, and the other variables have an empty association. (Ticket 168024)
    * Fixed in [9.6.15](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.6/#168024), [9.12.9](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.12/#168024), [9.18.4](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.18/#168024), and [9.22.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.22/#168024).
* In the **Properties** pane, you cannot copy, paste, or delete using keyboard shortcuts.
    * Fixed in [9.6.9](#2102).
* <a id="ki-1854"></a>When you are configuring an access rule and you scroll or resize the dialog box, the selected values in the drop-down list in the grid do not show the selected text anymore, although the values are still selected.
    * Fixed in [9.6.1](#1854)
* <a id="ki-1292"></a>The main line is incorrectly detected when a branch other than the default branch is downloaded. This bug also broke the check to determine if a branch was already present on disk, causing it to be re-downloaded from the version control server instead of being opened when switching branches in the **Branch Line Manager**.
    * Fixed in [9.6.1](#1292).
* <a id="ki-updatable"></a>There is an issue with the [updatable (write) capability](/refguide9/published-odata-resource/#capabilities) in published OData services that allows clients to change the attribute values of other entities if they know the IDs of the objects and their credentials give them entity access.
    * Fixed in [9.6.1](#updatable).
