---
title: "9.9"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/9.9/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro version 9.9 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
weight: 91
#When updating, remember to update the Latest Mendix Releases file
#KI: "When you update a consumed OData service" - DTML-358
---

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
The Studio Pro distribution contains a utility called `mx-cf-client`, which makes it possible to deploy a Mendix application to Cloud Foundry using Studio Pro. `mx-cf-client` contains a vulnerable `log4j-core` library. The only scenario in which this could be exploited is when the applicable Cloud Foundry server is untrusted or hacked.<br />
<br />
Studio Pro version [9.9.1](#991) updates Apache Log4j libraries to 2.17, which addresses [CVE-2021-45105](https://cert-portal.siemens.com/productcert/pdf/ssa-501673.pdf). Version [9.9.0](#44228) addressed [CVE-2021-44228 and CVE-2021-45046](https://cert-portal.siemens.com/productcert/pdf/ssa-714170.pdf) (for more details, see the [CVE-2021-44228 incident report](https://status.mendix.com/incidents/8j5043my610c))<br />
<br />
As always, Mendix recommends updating to the latest Studio Pro version.<br />
<br />
If updating is not possible, customers using Log4j version 2.10–2.15 can set the `LOG4J_FORMAT_MSG_NO_LOOKUPS=”true”` environment variable to mitigate this vulnerability.
{{% /alert %}}

## 9.9.2 {#992}

**Release date: January 17th, 2022**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "9.9.2" %}}

### Fixes

* <a name="back"></a>We fixed a [known issue](#ki-back) where back-references of one-to-one associations were not updated in memory.

### Known Issues

* In the **Properties** pane, you cannot copy, paste, or delete using keyboard shortcuts.
	* Fixed in [9.11.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.11/#21022).
* When you update a [consumed OData service](/refguide/consumed-odata-service/) with a new version from [Mendix Data Hub](/data-hub/) but close the document without saving, the blue arrow icon will no longer be shown to notify you about the available update for that service.
	* Workaround: Closing your app and opening it again fixes this issue.

## 9.9.1 {#991}

**Release date: December 22nd, 2021**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "9.9.1" %}}

### New Features

* This update enables Studio Pro to run on Apple Silicon Macs, such as the M1. Studio Pro is now enabled and tested to run on all Macs using Parallels 17 and Windows 11.

### Fixes

* We upgraded the Cloud Foundry client (`mx-cf-client`) by updating Apache Log4j libraries to 2.17.0, which addresses [CVE-2021-45105](https://cert-portal.siemens.com/productcert/pdf/ssa-501673.pdf).

### Known Issues

* In the **Properties** pane, you cannot copy, paste, or delete using keyboard shortcuts.
	* Fixed in [9.11.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.11/#21022).
* When setting a value of a reference of type **Both** in a one-to-one association on a Mendix object, multiple values have to be updated in memory. For example, if `brazil/country_capital` is `rio` and a microflow sets `brazil/country_capital` to `brasilia`, then `rio/country_capital` should be set to empty. In certain cases, such a "back-reference" is not cleared in memory; therefore, it is possible to get an outdated value when retrieving a value over the association. The out-of-date values are only stored in memory and are not persisted upon commit.
	* Fixed in [9.9.2](#back).
* When you update a [consumed OData service](/refguide/consumed-odata-service/) with a new version from [Mendix Data Hub](/data-hub/) but close the document without saving, the blue arrow icon will no longer be shown to notify you about the available update for that service.
	* Workaround: Closing your app and opening it again fixes this issue.

## 9.9.0 {#990}

**Release date: December 17th, 2021**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "9.9.0" %}}

### New Features

* We added support for PostgreSQL 14.

#### Styling Editor

With this release, we added an integrated editor that makes it easier to change the styling of your app and modules. This editor is based on the Monaco Editor, which is the same editor that powers Visual Studio Code and is also used for JavaScript actions. So, this should be a familiar and great experience.

Without having to leave Studio Pro, you can now directly do (advanced) app styling and quickly see the changes. You can find and edit the styling files (JS, SCSS) and theme settings (JSON) inside the App Explorer using this new editor.

We have also added a setting that lets you configure which styling files should be shown. There are three levels, which can be set via **Edit** > **Preference** > **General** > [Interface](/refguide/preferences-dialog/#interface) or by simply right-clicking the **Styling** node:

* **App only** – This option covers the most common use case and lets you customize your app-specific styling. With this, you can see all the files from the **theme** directory inside the **App** > **Styling** node in the App Explorer.
* **App and UI resource modules** – Use this option if you would like to create or edit UI resource modules (for example, to build or extend your design system/theme). In addition to what the above option includes, this option adds a **Styling** node to modules that are marked as UI resources, containing the files from the corresponding **themesource** directory.
* **App and all modules** – In addition to what the above option includes, this option adds a **Styling** node to all modules, regardless of whether they are marked as UI resources or not.

### Improvements

* [MxAssist Performance Bot](/refguide/mx-assist-performance-bot/) now supports fully-online apps for the **MXP006** recommendation to convert a microflow to a nanoflow.
* MxAssist Performance Bot can now detect page objects as usage locations of the **MXP009** recommendation in order to avoid using too many levels of inheritance.
* We added the new **MXP010** recommendation to MxAssist Performance Bot, which detects when duplicated access rules on an entity may impact performance.
* We added the new **MXP011** recommendation to MxAssist Performance Bot, which helps detect when deeply nested list views can cause performance issues in your app.
* We added the option to perform automatic retries for tasks that are executed in a [task queue](/refguide/task-queue/#retry). Methods were added to the Java API to perform a fixed or exponential retry.
* We removed the limit on the number of task queue threads.
* We added the runtime configurations `com.mendix.core.ScheduledEventsCleanupAge` and `com.mendix.core.ProcessedTasksCleanupAge` in order to clean up old completed scheduled events and processed tasks. These settings are specified in milliseconds, and they are disabled by default.
* We added several document types to the documentation export feature (accessible via **App Explorer** > [App](/refguide/app/) > **Export documentation**): module roles, pages, constants, import and export mappings, consumed and published web services, snippets, and scheduled events.
* We improved the metadata of [published OData services](/refguide/published-odata-services/). Updatable OData resources are no longer annotated with **NonUpdatableNavigationProperties** when that collection is empty.
* We changed how the names of external attributes and associations are displayed in the [Data Hub pane](/refguide/data-hub-pane/) so they are now consistent with the dataset attributes and associations names in the [Data Hub Catalog](/data-hub/data-hub-catalog/).
* At startup, we now rename the **MxAdmin** user in the database to sync with the user name defined in the model.
* When you open an app from a network path or from a drive in a Mac (both of which will contain double backslashes (`\\`) in the beginning of the file path), a warning is shown to tell you about potential issues that might cause and asks if you wants to proceed anyway.

### Fixes

* <a name="44228"></a>We upgraded the Cloud Foundry client (`mx-cf-client`) used to deploy Mendix applications from Mendix Studio Pro to compromised Cloud Foundry services by updating Apache Log4j libraries to 2.16.0, which addresses [CVE-2021-44228 and CVE-2021-45046](https://cert-portal.siemens.com/productcert/pdf/ssa-714170.pdf).
* We fixed an issue where the runtime server did not start if users with an [Administrator](/refguide/administrator/) role had *1* as their password. We now inactivate these users and start normally. (Tickets 68808, 69887, 85399, 113060, 128346)
* We fixed an issue where an offline-first app could not start without a network connection on a test environment. (Ticket 124745)
* We fixed an issue that caused a nested data view listening to a data grid to update incorrectly. (Ticket 129385)
* We fixed a bug where the limit, offset, filter, and sort order of a data source were erroneously applied to all data sources of the same [pluggable widget](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/pluggable-widgets-client-apis-list-values/). (Ticket 129488)
* We fixed an issue that occurred with a reference selector that set a reference to an uncommitted object where that object could not be retrieved over association in a microflow. (Tickets 131593, 133345, 134576, 135463, 137455)
* We fixed an issue where resuming Free Apps failed. (Ticket 132915)
* We fixed an issue where a [Synchronize](/refguide/synchronize/) nanoflow activity in **Unsynchronized objects** mode did not update the runtime database for objects that had been created on the device and synchronized with the runtime in the same session. (Ticket 133910)
* We fixed an issue where a [Close page](/refguide/close-page/) activity called from a data-source microflow resulted in an error. (Ticket 134521)
* We fixed the app crash that happened while performing changes in the app's security, such as deleting [access rules](/refguide/access-rules/). (Ticket 134605)
* We fixed an issue where it was not always possible to paste when inline-editing a caption in the page editor's [Structure mode](/refguide/page/#structure-mode). (Ticket 134741)
* We fixed an issue where apps with hundreds of branches took a very long time to load from the app selector and [Branch Line Manager](/refguide/branch-line-manager-dialog/). (Ticket 136374)
* We fixed an issue where it was possible to select all tree items using <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>A</kbd>.
* We fixed an issue in [consumed OData services](/refguide/consumed-odata-services/) where parsing metadata without an entity container resulted in an error. Now, it results in a service with no entities.
* We fixed an issue where metrics were missing because they were initialized too early.
* We fixed a runtime issue that occurred with the [Send external object](/refguide/send-external-object/) activity when sending external OData entities that had `Edm.Guid` as part of their key. The addressed URL had quotes around the `Guid`, which is syntactically incorrect.
* We removed inconsistent text from the short description for MxAssist Performance Bot recommendation **MXP008**.
* We fixed the incorrect format in OData metadata for the `UpdateMethod` and `SupportedFormats` capabilities. Please note that Studio Pro versions [9.4.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.4/) through [9.8.x](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.8/) are not able to read metadata produced by Studio Pro version 9.9.x for updatable services. Read-only services are working without issue.
* We fixed an issue in [published OData services](/refguide/odata-query-options/#paging) that occurred when paging was enabled and the queries went into an infinite loop.
* We fixed an issue in published OData services that occurred while generating metadata XML. The `Name` property in the `EntityContainer` section can no longer contain a slash (`/`). 
* We fixed a bug with native apps where top-level exceptions did not trigger the fatal error handler correctly when they happened early in the startup process.
* We fixed a bug where dialog boxes increased in height after an edit was done on the dialog box itself when the app was version-controlled.

### Deprecations

* Starting with Studio Pro version 9.11.0, we will drop support for DB2 version 11.1.

### Known Issues

* In the **Properties** pane, you cannot copy, paste, or delete using keyboard shortcuts.
	* Fixed in [9.11.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.11/#21022).
* <a name="ki-back"></a> When setting a value of a reference of type **Both** in a one-to-one association on a Mendix object, multiple values have to be updated in memory. For example, if `brazil/country_capital` is `rio` and a microflow sets `brazil/country_capital` to `brasilia`, then `rio/country_capital` should be set to empty. In certain cases, such a "back-reference" is not cleared in memory; therefore, it is possible to get an outdated value when retrieving a value over the association. The out-of-date values are only stored in memory and are not persisted upon commit.
	* Fixed in [9.9.2](#back).
* When you update a [consumed OData service](/refguide/consumed-odata-service/) with a new version from [Mendix Data Hub](/data-hub/) but close the document without saving, the blue arrow icon will no longer be shown to notify you about the available update for that service.
	* Workaround: Closing your app and opening it again fixes this issue.
