---
title: "Build a Logistics IoT App"
parent: "mendix-tutorials"
description: "Introduces the series that will describe how to expand the Mendix Logistics IoT app."
tags: ["iot", "logistics", "supply chain", "cargo", "shipment", "logistics", "sensor"]
---

## 1 Introduction

One of the critical issues facing manufacturers, suppliers, carriers, and customers across the supply chain is ensuring transported goods arrive at their target destination securely and ready to be used. While in transit, there are many factors that can adversely affect cargo, such as exposure to light, temperature increases and decreases, movement, and humidity.

Ensuring that the correct conditions are continually met while many different handlers and carriers are involved across a global supply chain can be challenging. In the Mendix **Logistics IoT** app, information about the environmental conditions provided by IoT sensors is presented to end-users.

The Mendix Logistics IoT app obtains and measures data from various sensors in individual cargo shipments on a ship. In the how-to scenario, a shipment of bananas needs to be monitored for the temperature inside the shipping container, and an alert needs to be sent whenever this temperature gets too high. The temperature sensor is connected to a cloud IoT platform (Amazon Web Services, or AWS), and its data is published via a channel that is called a topic. Subscribing to a topic makes it possible to use the data generated by the various sensor indicators in the app.

## 2 Prerequisites

Before starting these how-to's, create a new instance of the **Logistics IoT** app by downloading it from the [Mendix App Store](https://appstore.home.mendix.com/link/app/53934/) (make sure you are logged in). After the app has been downloaded, you can open it in the Desktop Modeler (download the Desktop Modeler [here](https://appstore.mendix.com/link/modelers) and install it in case you haven't done so already).

Please note the following:

* **Tutorial_Workspace** is the module in which you will be making the changes
* **Tutorial_Completed** has the full final version of the app model to use as an example

## 3 How to Build an IoT App Tutorial

The following how-to's will guide you through the process of building and expanding the Mendix Logistics IoT app:

* [How to Build a Logistics IoT App Step 1: Connect App Pages](build-an-iot-app-1)
* [How to Build a Logistics IoT App Step 2: Configure the Sensor Data Subscription](build-an-iot-app-2)
* [How to Build a Logistics IoT App Step 3: Handle the Sensor Data](build-an-iot-app-3)
* [How to Build a Logistics IoT App Step 4: Add Another Data Dimension](build-an-iot-app-4)
* [How to Build a Logistics IoT App Step 5: Create Alerts](build-an-iot-app-5)
* [How to Build a Logistics IoT App Step 6: Expand the IoT App Tracking](build-an-iot-app-6)

## 4 Next Step

Start the IoT app tutorial by checking out [How to Build a Logistics IoT App Step 1: Connect App Pages](build-an-iot-app-1)!
