---
title: "7.15 & Above"
category: "Web Modeler"
description: "New features, bug fixes, and known issues in the Mendix Web Modeler correlated to Desktop Modeler version 7.15 and above."
---

These are the Web Modeler release notes for app projects built with Desktop Modeler version 7.15 and above. The release notes include all minor versions, patches, and known issues.

For more information on the Web Modeler version and Mendix Desktop Modeler version correlation, see [Web Modeler Version & Mendix Version Correlation](/refguide/web-modeler/versions-wm).

{{% alert type="info" %}}

For Web Modeler release notes correlated with Desktop Modeler versions 7.11–7.14, see [7.11–7.14](7.11-7.14). 

{{% /alert %}}

## 2018

### July 16th, 2018

#### Improvements

* To give you a better preview of the pages, we now display pages with a pop-up window that renders when you use the pop-up layout.
* To improve user experience, we now display the real rendering of drop-down buttons in the page editor.
* When you add several tabs on a page in the Desktop Modeler, you can now switch between them in the Web Modeler and view their contents. This improves collaboration between developers in the Web Modeler and Desktop Modeler. 

#### Fixes

* We fixed the issue where the Web Modeler crashed when you had list view templates. 
* We fixed the issue where you could not select inherited attributes when initializing or setting values for microflow activities.

### July 5th, 2018

#### New Features

* We added support for [Desktop Modeler 7.16](../desktop-modeler/7.16). The Web Modeler supports ranges for the Mendix Desktop Modeler. This gives you choice in whether to update the Web Modeler right away, or postpone the update. For more information on the topic, see [Web Modeler Versions & Mendix Versions Correlation](/refguide/web-modeler/versions-wm).
* We introduced a brand new expressions functionality in the microflow editor. You can now write a custom expression when configuring microflow activities. This enhances the cases that you can configure in the microflows and makes microflows far more powerful and flexible. Configure a condition in an **Exclusive Split** activity, initialize values for **Create Object** and **Create Variable** activities, set values for **Change Object** and **Change Variable** activities, set a return value for the **End Event**.
* We added the **Aggregate List** activity to the microflow editor. You can use this activity to calculate aggregated values such as the maximum, minimum, sum, average and total amount of values in a list of objects.         

#### Fixes

*  We fixed the issue where it was impossible to deploy an app or open a project in the Desktop Modeler after **Auto Arrange** in the domain model editor was used. 
