---
title: "2017-02-21"
space: "Release Notes"
category: "Platform Portal"
---

**Release date: February 21st, 2017**

## 8.0

### New Features

* We added the **View App** and **Edit App** buttons. The **View App** button brings you to the deployment URL of your Free App, or, if you have test, acceptance, and production environments, it lets you choose between these environments using a drop-down menu. The **Edit App** button will launch the Desktop Modeler if you have it installed; if you are part of the partner group testing the Web Modeler, then you'll have the choice to directly open your app in the WM.
* We redesigned the interface. The new look sports light colors and a responsive layout. Menu items pertaining to your apps have been moved from the top to the left-hand side. Users with permissions to access restricted parts of the Mendix App Platform can navigate there using the **Profile** menu, which opens when you click your avatar in the top-right corner of the screen.
* We improved the breadcrumbs. A header on top of the Mendix App Platform will show you where you are in the navigation structure.
* The **Feedback** widget can now be used when opened on small screen sizes (for example, on a  smartphone).
- The **Guidance** sidebar has been replaced by the **Intercom** widget.

### Bug fixes

* We fixed the password reset form giving an error if you tried to submit it using the **Enter** key (even though you would receive a link).
* We fixed the **Team** overview flickering every few seconds that occurred after you create a new app.
* We fixed the screen jumping at every key-press that occurred while you were writing a large post on the Buzz.
