---
title: "10.16"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/10.16/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro 10.16 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
weight: 84
# System requirements: Java updates for 10.10, and 10.17
# KI: "Line endings": SOLP-1794 
# KI: "A finished parallel split path": WOR-1623
# KI: "Positioning error": LFX-712
---

## 10.16.0 {#10160}

**Release date: October 29, 2024**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/10.16.0" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 10.16.0 from the Marketplace" %}}

### New Features

#### Offline Data Support for Progressive Web Apps on iOS

Offline data can now be used on PWAs (Progressive Web Apps) running on iOS.

#### Other New Features

- We added Structure mode to macOS as an [experimental feature](/releasenotes/beta-features/). 
- It is now possible to customize the response of published OData services when retrieving data from an entity that uses a microflows to read/update/insert/delete. The headers, status code, and response body can be changed.

### Improvements

- We improved the performance of the workflow synchronization during startup. (Ticket 218740)
- The External Database Connector now supports SSL and certificate-based authentication for secure connections and encrypted communication to PostgreSQL. (Ticket 223212)
- We improved the loading of app-specific settings such as the active configuration, the current language code, and private constant values. When you open an app in a newer version, Studio Pro searches the app-specific settings of previous versions and copies those settings to the newer version.
- We set textContentType="password" on mobile PasswordInput component (iOS only) to improve the integration with password managers. This enables the password autofill functionality on iOS, so that when you tap on the password input it will suggest getting it from a password manager app on your device.


- We added support for PostgreSQL 17.
- We added a deprecation warning for when Java 17 is used.
- We added support for adding annotations on boundary events.
- [Default values](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/pluggable-widgets-property-types/#data-source-defaults) are now supported for data source properties in pluggable widgets. Any data source can be specified using the attributes `defaultType` (database, microflow, nanoflow, or association) and `defaultValue` (for example, name of the entity or microflow).
- Any invalid or non-existent enumeration property values are now automatically removed when the pluggable widget definition is updated.
- Parameters for microflows and nanoflows can now be added or updated directly from where they are called in actions and data sources.
- We added the possibility to collect helpful information for support about the current Studio Pro process and overall situation of the of process like CPU, memory usage, child processes, threads, and etc..
- We updated the **Show Image** option (for example, in the page editor) to select the corresponding image in the opening **Image Collection**.
- We created a new UI for the Consumed REST editor (beta). This allows for more flexibility in the user interface and has better support for macOS. Itis enabled by default, but it is still possible to select the previous UI selecting **Classic Version** in the editor.
- We added an option to the **Help** > **Support Tools** menu in Studio Pro to enable a background monitor that should be able to detect when the application becomes unresponsive, and write diagnostic information to the log file. 
- We improved the structure and names of the items in the **Help** > **Support Tools** menu in Studio Pro. 
- We made it possible to close the **Commit** pop-up window with the <kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>Enter</kbd> shortcut. Also, a blue border is added to the button to indicate that it is the default button. {TW}
- We added the ability to add boundary events through the context menu of an activity.
- We added startup, liveness and readiness probes for better control of the application lifecycle. The probe endpoints are now available on admin port. The startup endpoint is `/probes/started`, the liveness endpoint is `/probes/alive` and the readiness endpoint is `/probes/ready`.
- We added a new setting in **Preferences > Deployment** that disables the synchronization of managed Java dependencies. This can be used to start an application even if Gradle synchronization fails, for example in an air-gapped environment. Note that this may result in compilation errors if Java dependencies are missing, and you must handle duplication and version conflicts manually. SBOM generation is not supported when synchronization is disabled.
- We now include Java dependencies in exported app and module packages. These are used if Gradle synchronization is disabled.
- You are now prompted to pull changes if there are incoming commits during the initial stage of the **Merge changes here** or **Revert a commit** operations. This ensures smoother experience.
- The styling of the version control buttons (**Branch Status**, **Incoming Commits**, **Outgoing Commits**) located on the status bar at the bottom of Studio Pro is updated. 
- For a repository *core.longpath* option is set to `true` to support long path on Windows. {TW}
- We made it possible to move forwards and backwards through your editing history to show the documents you have recently worked on. The feature can be enabled via **Edit > Preferences > New Features** which results in two new buttons in the Studio Pro top bar and also two new menu items **Edit > Back** and **Edit > Forward** with shortcut keys <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>-</kbd> and <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>-</kbd> respectively. {TW}
- We now support the *.webp* extension when uploading images, as well as in image collections. This means you can use it for both static and dynamic content.
- We deprecated the Mendix Runtime API call `ICore#addSessionCookies` and replaced it with `ICore#addMendixCookies`. This new API call does not need the path the application is running on.
- We added new variables for *$ParentTask* and *$CalledWorkflowInstance* in a boundary event flow context.
- We added a new feedback message, in case a user copies a boundary event onto an activity which does not support it or already has five boundary events.
- We improved the consistency error that appears when an app has unspecified private constant values in the active configuration. This consistency error is now more descriptive, has *Element* and *Document* specified, and double-clicking it shows the app settings.
- We upgraded System.Text.Json to 8.0.5.

### Fixes

* We fixed [CVE-2023-49069](/releasenotes/security-advisories/#49069).
- <a id="fix-boundary-targeting"></a>We fixed a [known issue](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.15/#ki-boundary-targeting) where boundary events were scheduled before a user task could complete its user targeting, which caused the workflow to fail.
- <a id="fix-boundary-events-failed-activity"></a>We fixed a [known issue](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.15/#ki-boundary-events-failed-activity) with nested boundary flows where only the first level of boundary events was aborted/restarted and lower nested boundary events were not aborted correctly.
- <a id="fix-workflow-jumps-back"></a>We fixed a [known issue](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.15/#ki-workflow-jumps-back) where the workflow jumped back into an activity that already had a scheduled (timer) boundary event it scheduled another timer event. 

- We fixed a workflow activity record issue where the start activity had a non-deterministic key after restart.
- We fixed an issue where the caption of a deleted activity was incorrect when retrieving workflow activity records.
- We fixed an issue where the order of workflow jump targets was incorrect.
- We fixed an issue in the domain model editor where dragging from a border of an entity to a different place on its border did not create an association.
- We fixed an issue in the editor for operations of published REST services in Studio Pro, where double-clicking a consistency error showed an error rather than showing the operation with its parameters.
- We fixed an error that happened when switching tabs in the Published OData service.
- We fixed an exception (an **Oops** dialog) that occurred in a data grid when the user released the mouse button over a grid or a tree, such as the App Explorer. (Ticket 221458).

* We fixed Studio Pro crash that happened when editing Japanese characters in the expression editor. (Ticket  227556)
* We fixed some spurious foreign key constraint violation errors when using the built-in database (HSQLDB) and workflows with multiple threads.
- We fixed a typo in a **Delete** pop-up window where **REST Request** was rendered as **rEST request**.
- We added a consistency error when trying to use calculated attributes from OQL.
- We fixed an issue that made it impossible to start Studio Pro for the first time when there was no internet connection available.
- We fixed an issue where finding the plural of a string consisting of one or more *S*-characters, such as when publishing an entity named *S* in an OData service, gave an error. Now it pluralizes it to *Ss*. 
- We fixed an issue when running an app with security off. In this case published OData services used an anonymous user. They now run without a user, improving the performance. (Ticket 227196).
- We fixed an issue where a client error pop-up window was shown when the **Create object** action created an object over an association. (Ticket 227791, 230218)

- We resolved a navigation issue affecting apps with sidebar drawers. (Ticket 221824)
- We fixed an issue in Studio Pro for PMP where a newly created PMP app repeatedly prompted users for credentials, blocking access with persistent pop-ups.
- We fixed an issue where an incorrectly configured template (or data) broke page navigation.
- We fixed an issue where the default date patterns for the English language required the user to insert a non-breaking space in date and time input fields. (Ticket 225500)
* We fixed an issue where a named user with multiple tabs open containing changes attempted to execute a runtime operation after session expiry. While one tab reloaded correctly on executing the action, the other tabs did not reload and retained invalid read-only change hashes which resulted in invalid hash errors. (Ticket 228140, 228296) {TW}
* We fixed an issue where a client error dialog was shown when the override page title was used with an expression variable containing '$currentObject'. (Ticket 227475)
- We fixed an issue in the XPath constraint window where the object being filtered did not update when the data source entity was modified. (Ticket 226111)
- We fixed an issue where Studio Pro crashed when a **Retrieve Workflows** action was configured without a **Workflow Context** variable. Additionally, we now allow using a context entity and workflows from different modules. Previously this raised a consistency error.
- We fixed an issue on Android where text inside a button was announced by the screen reader in addition to the accessibility label. (Ticket 228327)
- We resolved an issue where the native dropdown menu item text did not scale appropriately with larger accessibility text settings. (Ticket 228404)
- We fixed an issue in the App Selector that the loading spinner stayed visible forever even when loading apps had finished.

### Known Issues

* Line endings in CSS files are not being handled properly, so when using [Revert All Changes](/refguide/using-version-control-in-studio-pro/) or performing other version-control operations, CSS files appear in the [Changes on Disk](/refguide/version-control-menu/#show-changes) dialog box.
    * Workaround: For details, see [this section](/refguide/troubleshoot-version-control-issues/#css-error) in *Troubleshooting Version Control*.
* A finished parallel split path that is removed from a running workflow instance wrongly leads to a versioning conflict. Please note that "path" was called "branch" in earlier versions.
* There is a positioning error in the logic editors when you are dragging a large element, such as a loop, into a sequence flow, it overlaps with the existing elements.
