---
title: "10.1"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/10.1/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro version 10.1 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
weight: 99
# KI: WOR-1563 [todo:check if I should delete]
---

## 10.1 {#101} 

**Release date: July 25, 2023**

### Improvements

* We added support for the following [language](/refguide/language-settings/): Basque (Euskara).
* We added the ability to search in tree controls for results that contain recursiveness in their data (for example, in the **Selector** dialog box that allows you to select an entity or attribute over associations).
* We added **readonly** description fields in the **Add** and **Edit** dialog boxes for [business event subscriptions](/appstore/modules/business-events/).
* We improved the configuration of parameter mappings for actions and snippet calls. This prevents them from changing automatically when you add a page parameter or snippet parameter to the surrounding form, or when you change a data grid's selection mode.
* The target document of an action or snippet call no longer requires the parameter mappings to be closed and reopened to be refreshed if they have become invalid.
* We added an ability to preview images in the **Properties** pane for entity and building block images.
* We now publish the [OpenAPI 3.0 specification](/refguide/open-api/) for published REST services alongside the existing OAS or Swagger 2.0 specification.
* The Swagger UI of published REST services now shows a **Choose File** button when you are using a REST operation that takes a FileDocument (or derived entity) as a parameter.

#### Other Improvements

* We made it possible to switch off localization (time zone conversion) for DateTime attributes of external entities (Ticket 188260).
* We restored the ability to change the **Visible for** page setting from the **Properties** pane. (Ticket 189995)
* We made the workflows behavior for user tasks more consistent. If the number of targeted users is fewer than the required number of users, then the user task will always fail.
* We have updated spacing between the toolbar control elements.
* We updated the `mx check` tool so it refers to the rebranded Best Practice Bot (formerly Performance Bot).
* We enabled more translations of error messages generated by the Mendix Runtime. 

### Fixes

* We fixed an error which occurred when calling `Core.http().executeHttpRequests()` from a Java action, and when a **Services** log level is set to **TRACE** (Tickets 187764 and 187228)
* We fixed a runtime error if a microflow was no longer being used in an app after doing a hot reload in Studio Pro.
* We fixed an issue when a nanoflow retrieves a non-persistable entity over association and this entity has an event handler. (Ticket 183879)
* We fixed an issue when retrieving a non-persistable entity over association and the entity has a generalization with a calculated attribute. (Ticket 188255)
* We fixed a memory leak that would occur when opening pages. This would cause issues after opening thousands of pages. (Ticket 172126)
* We fixed an issue affecting text boxes where the enter keypress event was being called from popups, causing an unexpected behavior.
* We fixed an issue when the **Commit Message** field was not focused upon opening the **Commit** dialog box.
* We fixed an issue where a nanoflow could not be debugged if it was created while the app was already running.
* We fixed a styling issue affecting disabled check box controls.
* We fixed an issue where the text editor control did not have a border in the dark theme.
* We fixed icons styling in the auto-complete popup of the text editor control in the dark theme.
* We fixed an issue with rendering of the custom application icons in the app selector dialog box.
* We fixed an issue with the border color of the selected cells in the grid control.
* We fixed an issue in offline applications where an association would be lost if an uncommitted NPE would be used in a microflow. (Ticket 187904)
* We fixed an issue where it was possible to add a path after a non-object variable, which could lead to issues in the running app. (Tickets 171893, 172495)
* We fixed an issue in the OpenAPI contract of a published OData service. GET operations no longer specify the $expand parameter when there are no associations to expand. (Ticket 182627)
* We fixed the **Create object** activity so that it now produces a consistency error when committing an external object.
* We fixed an issue where an application with excluded JAR files would fail to deploy in Studio Pro. (Ticket 181931)
* We fixed an issue so now **Find usages** results now also include enumeration values which are used for conditional visibility. (Ticket 180727)
* We fixed an issue where creating a non-persistable entity could lead to errors when attributes were read-only.
* We fixed an issue where exporting recommendations from Best Practice Bot was including suppressed recommendations.
* We fixed CVE-2023-29017.
* We fixed an issue where, when opening multiple modal pop-up windows at the same time, it was sometimes impossible to focus widgets in the pop-up window which was on top. (Ticket #180137)
* We fixed an issue where the debugger would give an error and disconnect after 30 seconds of inactivity. (Ticket 151937, 169696, 175161, 175542, 178553, 180332)
* We fixed an issue where the workflow user task on-state-change microflow would not run again when the state changes to failed due to a prior execution error in the same event handling microflow
* We fixed an issue where non-localized date/time attributes in XPath constraints were not handled correctly, producing incorrect queries. (Ticket 176850)
* We fixed an issue which triggered a consistency error on a text template of a pluggable widget inside a snippet with multiple parameters if the template had parameters based on an attribute.
* We fixed an issue which caused the attribute of conditional visibility settings or text template parameters of a button inside a Reference set selector to be no longer selectable, resulting in a consistency error. (Ticket 182203)
* We fixed an issue in the OpenApi contract of published REST services, where operations that use an import mapping would have a schema defined for the other parameters, and not a type. (Ticket 182615)
* We fixed an issue when adding external entities to an app, where the generation of enumeratons would sometimes cause an error.
* We fixed an issue where published REST and OData services would create a session for a web service user when the custom authentication microflow would return such a user. This is unsupported (web service users should only be used for published web (SOAP) services), and would lead to these sessions not being cleaned up properly. This scenario now results in an 500 Internal Server Error (Ticket 182579, 187479).
* We fixed the issue that language sensitive parts on pages are not fully updated when a user changes his language via the Language Selector widget. (Ticket 180130, 180670, 180824, 181274, 181713, 181974)
* We fixed CVE-2023-30547
* We fixed an issue where Best Practice Bot was not skipping disabled microflow actions - this did not cause any false positives, but caused some Best Practices to output no results for some apps.
* We fixed a crash in the sign-in, that blocked some users to sign-in with their users (Ticket 181864, 183014)
* We fixed an issue where clicking the 'load more' button on a list view triggered the on click on a surrounding widget. (Ticket 365439)
* We fixed an issue with text controls where the text was sometimes undesirably reverted.
* We fixed an issue in the grid control where selecting multiple cells using 'Shift' was inconsistent (when clicking on the interactable control itself in the cell, i.e. CheckBox).
* We fixed an error in OData write in case when user has no access to entity's association and there was an attempt to change its value. Runtime used to produce response with status 500. Now it is an error response with status 422.
* We fixed an issue where deployment fails on Linux operating system when module names contains upper case letters (Tickets 183841, 183872).
* We fixed an issue where importing a file from before version 9.24 would cause a lot of errors to appear. (Ticket 182860)
* We fixed an issue where ML Kit has an issue when the app is running
* We fixed an issue when ML mapping document is moved underlying ONNX file was not copied to new location.
* We fixed an issue which caused the warning dialog for the **Inline snippet** action to mention the same affected widget multiple times.
* We fixed an issue which caused the **Inline snippet** action to crash if a surrounding data widget was not configured yet.
* We fixed an issue where attribute widgets (such as Text box) did not trigger a consistency error if the selected attribute had an invalid source, causing an error when deploying the app. (Ticket 183379)
* We fixed an issue where a page parameter triggered a warning that it was unused if the only reference to that parameter was inside an XPath constraint.
* We fixed an issue where a page parameter sometimes did not trigger a warning that it was unused if the parameter mapping of an action or data source pointed to an object of the same entity as the parameter.
* We made it possible to use the scrollbars in disabled grids.
* We fixed an issue where the nanoflow debugger would not stay paused after 30 seconds.
* We fixed an issue in published REST services and published OData services that use a combination of custom authentication and an other type of authentication. When the custom authentication does not authenticate the user but a subsequent type of authentication does, the operation would previously be unable to read the body of the request. (Ticket 185790)
* We fixed the documentation links in Studio-Pro to point to Mx10 docs (instead of Mx9 docs).
* We fixed an issue with search field with multiselect not working correctly with numeric attributes.
* We fixed an issue with dojo widgets that was causing custom icon collections not to work. (Ticket 183996)
* We fixed an issue where the `originURI` cookie could not be read when using the default `index.html` (ticket 181106).
* We have updated the Building Block image requirement to PNG image that has dimensions of 432x192 pixels and downscale it when the image is too large to fit into Toolbox.
* We fixed an issue where the `originURI` cookie could not be read when using the default `index.html` (Ticket 181106).
* We fixed CVE-2023-32314.
* We fixed an issue with getting the device name as the phone's factory name in Mobile apps. (Ticket 183392)
* We fixed possible race conditions between microflow actions on the same workflow instance.
* We fixed the issue when Documentation pane does not show the documentation corresponding to the selected element in certain conditions (Ticket 185876).
* We fixed the functionality of the 'Collapse All' button in the tree control: It should collapse all nodes in the tree, even when there is only a single root node in the tree.
* We fixed an issue where the runtime for published REST services would give an error when an operation microflow would set a non-standard http status code for the http response.
* We fixed an issue where compilation of Java actions fails when annotation processors are used. (Ticket 186516)
* We fixed the tooltips that were not displayed for disabled toolbar buttons.
* We fixed an issue where the navigation editor's width would change upon performing UI updates (i.e. toggling a checkbox).
* We fixed an issue where no error message is shown when an update of a Marketplace module fails. (Ticket 183507)
* We fixed an issue where a pluggable widget with a [`widgets`](https://docs.mendix.com/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/pluggable-widgets-property-types/#widgets) property linked to a datasource and an [`image`](https://docs.mendix.com/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/pluggable-widgets-property-types/#image) property configured as a dynamic image was rendering incorrect data. (Ticket 117735)
* We fixed [CVE-2022-34716](https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2022-34716).
* We fixed an issue where Validation Assist generated incorrect validation microflow (Ticket 186222).
* We fixed an issue that allowed users to add custom icons to Native pages even though native pages do not support custom icons. (Ticket 186783)
* We fixed an issue in offline-first profiles where a failed synchronzation due to commiting some invalid changes does not provide sufficient information about the error in the logs nor in the stack trace (tickets 183328, 186301).
* We fixed an issue in Best Practice Bot where some apps could report 0 recommendations for MXP008 Cached non persistable entity.
* We fixed an issue where no consistency error was show on an invalid expression in a microflow when using an association that cannot be traversed. (Ticket 185701)
* We fixed an issue where the XPath constraint of a data source could produce incorrect results if the widget was placed inside a pluggable widget and the constraint was using attributes from a page variable (such as $currentObject). (Ticket 178210)
* We fixed an issue where Studio Pro would crash if you accidentally dropped a container widget onto itself. (Ticket 189191)
* We fixed an issue which caused an error when deploying the app if a snippet contained a check box with an *On change* action which used a snippet parameter. (Ticket 191010)
* We fixed an issue where a tabbed editor (i.e. navigation editor) that contains a tree or grid control, would start changing its width upon performing UI updates (i.e. toggling a checkbox), after the appearance of a scrollbar in the mentioned tree or grid control.
* We fixed an issue where the change event handler of a completed user task was not called when an incompatible workflow is continued.
* We fixed an issue that could cause an error message when closing a dialog.
* We fixed an accessibility issue on the search bar in ListView component.
* We fixed an issue with the combobox and toggle controls background colors.
* We fixed an issue with the request-body URLs encoding for POST/PATCH requests for the External objects. These URLs will now be encoded for the outgoing request's body.
* We fixed an issue that the fallback to the default language for non-default languages was not used for a [text template property](https://docs.mendix.com/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/pluggable-widgets-property-types/#texttemplate) when it was linked to a datasource. This resulted in an empty text in the client, e.g. for the dynamic text property of a data grid 2 column. (Ticket 188724, 188403)
* We fixed the ability to search in the tree controls that contain recursiveness in the data (e.g. in the Selector dialog that allows selecting an entity or attribute over associations).
* We fixed an issue where the data grid control cells containing hyperlinks might have incorrect visual styling.
* We fixed an error that caused an exception in workflows change event handling when the context object does not exist.
* We fixed an issue related to input labels accessibility in Login Widgets.
* We fixed an accessibility issue in Data grid filters.
* We fixed the behavior of the [Pluggable Widget Filtering API](https://docs.mendix.com/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/pluggable-widgets-client-apis-list-values/#listvalue-filtering) for attributes over association, so that a filter like `equals(attributeId, empty())` will now also match if any of the associations leading up to the attribute are empty. (Ticket 186042)
* We fixed an issue with resizing of the Navigation editor.
* We restored the ability to type from editors to default property in Properties pane.
* We fixed an issue where an oops dialog was shown in Select Schema Elements dialog inside Import Mapping, when an XML schema with more than 2 levels of children was selected.
* We fixed the error message that is returned from a published OData service when trying to perform arithmetic operations in a filter query clause. It now explicitly names the OData operands it does not support. 
* We fixed the missing line breaks in the Metadata property in the Consumed OData services properties pane.


### Known Issues

TODO: CHECK IF THE KI FROM 10.0 MUST REMAIN

### Known Issues

* The algorithm for detecting conflicts during the migration of workflows with active multi-user tasks is currently too rigid and will not allow a conflicted user task to be continued in certain cases. In a future release, we will provide better migration scenarios where workflows with conflicted multi-user tasks can be continued. These are the situations in which a multi-user task is marked as **Incompatible** without continue:
    * The type of decision method (as in, **Consensus**, **Majority**, **Threshold**, or **Veto**) is changed.
    * A **Majority** decision method is changed from **More than half** to **Most chosen**.
    * A **Threshold** decision method is changed from **Percentage** to **Absolute number** or vice versa.
    * The **Percentage** or **Amount** value for the **Threshold** decision method is lowered.

