---
title: "10.7"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/10.7/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro 10.7 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
weight: 93
# System requirements: Java updates for 10.7, 10.10, and 10.17
# KI: "Line endings": SOLP-1794
# KI: "A finished parallel split path": WOR-1623
# KI: "Positioning error": LFX-712
---

## 10.7.0 {#1070}

**Release date: January 30, 2024**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/10.7.0" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 10.7.0 from the Marketplace" %}}

### New Features

#### Conditional Editability on Data Views

We introduced conditional editability for [data views](/refguide/data-view/#editability). This means that when all the input fields within a data view are editable based on the same condition, you no longer need to repeat that condition for every input field. You can now specify that condition on the data view level instead.

When conditional editability conditions are nested (for example, an input field is inside a conditionally editable data view or nested data views have conditional editability conditions), then the conditions are combined.

{{% alert color="info" %}}This is based on an [upvoted idea from Marco Bouwkamp](https://community.mendix.com/link/space/app-development/ideas/1668) submitted to the Mendix Community. Thanks, Marco!{{% /alert %}}

#### React Client

In keeping with our commitment to delivering the best user experience possible, we are excited to introduce our new web client. This client is built entirely using React.js, a modern JavaScript library known for its efficiency and flexibility.

The Mendix 10 React Client is available in [beta](/releasenotes/beta-features/) and will be generally available in Studio Pro 10.12.

Enabling can be done with the [Use React Client](/refguide/app-settings/#react-client) configuration in the runtime settings. For more information, see [Mendix React Client](/refguide/mendix-client/react/).

#### Studio Pro on Mac (Beta)

Studio Pro on Mac is now in [public beta](/releasenotes/beta-features/). This allows you to run Studio Pro natively on Mac without Parallels. With the Mac version of Studio Pro, you can edit your apps in the same way as on Windows using the functionality you are used to. For more information, see the [Software Specifications](/refguide/system-requirements/#software) section in *System Requirements*. 

These are the known limitations:

* No native mobile support.
* No support for document templates.
* No **Structure mode** for the page editor.
* The search in the **App Explorer** does not work yet; you can use <kbd>Command</kbd> + <kbd>G</kbd> to search for documents.
* If you have already installed JDK previously, it may not be picked up properly during installation. You can either configure this manually or remove all references to JDK and run the installer again.
* The installer is currently not notarized yet; you bypass the dialog box by using right-click > **Open**.

#### Version Control: Aligning Merge Update Flow with Rebase

We aligned the merge flow with the rebase experience used when you update. Now, both ways of updating are handled and managed by notification bars with similar controls.

For more information on these actions and their differences, see [Combining Changes and Conflict Resolution](/refguide/merge-algorithm/).

#### Workflow Events 

The [Events](/refguide/workflow-properties/#events) setting is deprecated and will be removed in Studio Pro version 11.0.0. We replaced it with a new mechanism to register microflows as [event handlers](/refguide/workflow-properties/#event-handlers) for events that occur to workflows. The event-handler microflows are provided with detailed workflow data that can be used to create audit trails or performance diagrams or be used for analytical purposes. For more information, see [Workflow Events](/refguide/workflow-events/).

### Improvements

* [MxAssist Logic Bot](/refguide/mx-assist-logic-bot/) now supports parameter matching for the **Show Page** activity.
* We introduced the new [Selection](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/pluggable-widgets-property-types/#selection) property for the Pluggable Widgets API (and [SelectionValue](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/pluggable-widgets-client-apis/#selection-value) in the Client API) which allows widgets to read and set selections that can be used in actions, expressions, or a **Listen to** data source of a data view.
* We changed the keyboard support in [MendixChat](/refguide/mendix-chat/) for building and sending a prompt. <kbd>Enter</kbd> sends while <kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>Enter</kbd> adds a new line. <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Enter</kbd> works in the same way as <kbd>Enter</kbd>, because <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> is not taken into account anymore.
* We added a **New chat** button to the top bar of MendixChat which allows you to clear messages from the chat.
* We added a copy option to MendixChat which allows you to copy the given answer to a clipboard.
* We added useful information about the referenced documents in MendixChat. You can now see the Mendix version of the references, the level required if the reference comes from Mendix Academy, and the date and answer status if the reference comes from the Mendix Community.
* When selecting a REST request for a [Send REST request (beta)](/refguide/send-rest-request/) microflow activity, you can now select **New** to directly create a new REST request.
* Consumed REST services now support variables in request headers.
* We now support the HTTP method `PATCH` in a consumed REST service (beta).
* We introduced `application/json` as the default **Value** for **Accept** headers in a consumed REST service (beta). The **Accept** header lets the server know what content type response can be understood by the client application.
* Studio Pro now blocks the [Rebase](/refguide/merge-algorithm/#rebase) feature when the installed Git version is below 2.41.
* When moving documents that have roles configured for them (for example, roles for pages or microflows) to a different module, Studio Pro now tries to re-map the configured roles to roles with the same name from the module to which you are moving the documents.
* We improved the scaling of the new access rule editor when expanding the view.
* We improved the scroll behavior in the new access rule editor. Next to this, we made various small improvements to focus, selection, and ordering in the UI.
* When a data view listens to a pluggable widget while you are in **Design mode**, an overlay icon and proper selection highlighting are now shown on both widgets.
* Published OData services can now be hosted on any location path, not just `/odata`.
* The [list of published OData services](/refguide/published-odata-services/#general) on `/odata-doc` now shows the [service names](/refguide/published-odata-services/#service-name) instead of locations of the services.
* We moved the [Send external object](/refguide/send-external-object/) and [Delete external object](/refguide/delete-external-object/) activities to the **Integration activities** category in the microflow **Toolbox**.
* We upgraded the Azure Blob Storage dependency from 8.6.6 to 12.25.1.
* We improved the error messages that are logged when the number of users exceeds the licensed amount.
* We updated the [Data Importer](/appstore/modules/data-importer-extension/) module to read, parse, and import CSV (comma-separated values) files. The existing Data Importer menu can be used to configure your CSV files. The configured settings can be utilized with the existing [Import data from file](/refguide/import-data-from-file/) activity.
* [External Database Connector](/appstore/modules/external-database-connector/) now supports UPDATE & DELETE SQL statements.
* We improved the performance of populating tables and views metadata from all schemas accessible by the user in [External Database Connector](/appstore/modules/external-database-connector/). Searching for information within this tab was also improved.
* External Database Connector has a new SQL Query text box which offers highlighting of SQL grammar and retains indentation and formatting after it is pasted into the component. It also now supports standard features such as copy, paste, undo, redo, find, and replace.
* We improved the performance of a dangling reference cleanup procedure on the first run of a new app.
* We reintroduced the improvement that updates the `changedBy` attribute when `storeFileDocumentContent` or `storeImageDocumentContent` from the [Mendix Runtime API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/runtime-api/) is used, or when uploading files. This makes it consistent with other ways of updating file documents or images.
* We improved the handling of errors that can occur when committing a `FileDocument`.

### Fixes

* <a id="fix-breakpoint"></a>We fixed a [known issue](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.6/#ki-breakpoint) where breakpoints were not updating.
* We fixed an issue where the last row did not get imported from an Excel file to the [Batch translate](/refguide/batch-translate/) dialog box. (Tickets 199182, 202693)
* We reintroduced the fix for the issue where created files were not deleted when an error occurred in a microflow. (Ticket 199712) 
* We fixed a problem where using the setting **Public application root URL** without an explicitly specified protocol (for example, "example.com" instead of "http://example.com/ ") was causing issues. (Ticket 197968)
* We fixed an issue where the **Add** and **Remove** options in the properties dialog box of the **Change object** microflow activity were not active. (Ticket 201629)
* We fixed an issue where changes could not be saved or cancelled when using an input reference set selector widget in a data view without an object. (Ticket 201170)
* We fixed an issue where MxBuild threw an exception when there was a consistency error in the mapping document. (Ticket 203311)
* We fixed an issue where a `NullPointerException` occurred due to specific Java dependencies at the startup of an app. (Ticket 203262)
* We fixed an issue with the OpenAPI 2.0 contract for published REST services where applying a list parameter to an operation resulted in an invalid *swagger.json* file. (Ticket 203643)
* We fixed an issue where a **Select** button on a data grid threw an error. (Ticket 203690)
* We fixed the `System.ArgumentOutOfRangeException` that occurred in microflow expressions using if-then-else expressions. (Ticket 204039)
* We fixed an issue that occurred when selecting an association for a pluggable widget (for example, the **Combo box** widget) inside a snippet with multiple parameters. (Ticket 204133)
* We fixed an issue with external entities where XPath constraints using the `contains` function with an empty search term resulted in an error. (Ticket 204392)
* We fixed a case in OQL where the `ON` condition of an `INNER JOIN` was lost if only ID attributes of the entities were used. (Ticket 204833)
* We fixed an issue in which navigating back in history caused a [Combo Box](/appstore/widgets/combobox/) widget using an association to break. (Tickets 205378, 205479)
* We fixed an issue where MxAssist Logic Bot had a performance issue with some blank apps.
* We fixed an issue where MxAssist Logic Bot sent an invalid request to MARS.
* We fixed an issue where MxAssist Logic Bot did not show newly created microflows and nanoflows in a suggestion list.
* We fixed an issue that occurred when values entered into the new expression editor were not saved (for example, when generating an expression via the **Generate** button in the **Edit Change Item** dialog box).
* Using an empty collection in the [Mendix Runtime API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/runtime-api/)'s `XPathQuery.setVariable` or `IParameterMap.putCollection` no longer results in invalid SQL being generated.
* We now validate the attribute names of business events on creation to avoid having the same name as an attribute from the generalization entities.
* We fixed an issue in the microflow editor where the output variable on a **Cast object** activity was not set to the correct entity.
* We fixed an issue in the logic editors where the return type of a list operation showed **(Not set)** when predefined variables were used.
* We fixed an issue where an error was shown when trying to modify entity members through the **Change object** microflow action.
* We fixed an issue where a microflow could not be opened that referenced a deleted query when using the External Database Connector package.
* We fixed a bug where after downloading a branch, an "Oops" pop-up window with the "Not a Mendix Git-url" error was shown.
* We fixed an issue that occurred when trying to navigate to a deleted element through **Find Results**. You are now notified that the target element had been deleted.
* We fixed an issue with the new access rule editor being out-of-sync when having unsaved changes to the entity.
* We fixed an issue with the new access rule editor not restricting editing based on the capabilities of the entity.
* We fixed an issue where `mx.exe create-module-package` did not include widgets.
* We fixed an error in the client when a widget selection variable was used in an expression inside a list widget (for example, inside a list view or a **Gallery** widget).
* We fixed an issue where a microflow or a nanoflow was directly created with a default name without asking it.
* We fixed an issue with the XML Schema wizard for published web services in Studio Pro on MacOS.
* We corrected the @context URL that is returned for OData actions that return an object or a list of objects. This now points to the entity type metadata instead of the entity set.
* We fixed an error that occurred when consuming an OData contract that contained an action using an entity that was not exposed through an entity set. Studio Pro now displays these actions as having an unsupported parameter or return type.
* We fixed an issue in the Swagger UI interactive documentation pages for published REST and OData services. These pages no longer allow configuration to be set via query parameters.
* We fixed an issue in the domain model editor where undoing changes to the domain model caused an "Oops" pop-up window to appear when making new changes.
* We corrected the result of the `getMetaInfo` method when it is called on a `RetrieveIdListAction`.
* We fixed the issue in workflows where the failure reason of an activity was overwritten by a subsequent abort. A failed activity is no longer aborted, but stays failed.

### Deprecations   

* We removed the legacy microflow editor.

### Known Issues

* <a id="ki-expression-editor"></a>The new expression editor does not work well with non-ASCII characters.
    * Fixed in [10.8.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.8/#fix-expression-editor).
* <a id="ki-crash"></a>Studio Pro might crash when using the new expression editor in combination with accessibility tools (for example, enabling the text cursor indicator).
    * Fixed in [10.8.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.8/#fix-crash).
* In some cases, even if you are already logged in to Studio Pro, you might still need to click **Sign in** under the **MendixChat** tab to make MendixChat available for use.
    * Fixed in [10.8.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.8/#fix-sign-in).
* For some activities in the logic editors, the types of variables are not visible or shown as **Not set**. This is only a visual bug. (Tickets 205751, 207251)
    * Fixed in [10.9.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.9/#fix-logic-editors-not-set).
* <a id="ki-runtime-settings"></a>When the `com.mendix.storage.azure.BlobEndpoint` runtime setting contains the container name as a suffix (for example, https://account.blob.core.windows.net/example-container/), files stored in Azure will be stored at the top-level without a directory hierarchy. Previously they would have been stored in a directory hierarchy which means that the app can no longer access previously-stored files. (Ticket 210679)
    * Fixed in [10.9.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.9/#fix-runtime-settings).
* <a id="ki-scheduled-events"></a>Disabling Custom Scheduled Events in the **App Settings** > **Configurations** has no effect and they will still run on their scheduled time. Toggling on a disabled Scheduled Event will also have no effect. 
    * Fixed in [10.11.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.11/#fix-scheduled-events).
* When using a microflow decision method for a multi-user task in workflows, the `System.WorkflowUserTask` is always `empty`.
    * Fixed in [10.12](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.12/#fix-workflow-parameter) 
* Line endings in CSS files are not being handled properly, so when using [Revert All Changes](/refguide/using-version-control-in-studio-pro/) or performing other version-control operations, CSS files appear in the [Changes on Disk](/refguide/version-control-menu/#show-changes) dialog box.
    * Workaround: For details, see [this section](/refguide/troubleshoot-version-control-issues/#css-error) in *Troubleshooting Version Control*.
* A finished parallel split path that is removed from a running workflow instance wrongly leads to a versioning conflict. Please note that "path" was called "branch" in earlier versions.
* There is a positioning error in the logic editors when you are dragging a large element, such as a loop, into a sequence flow, it overlaps with the existing elements.
