---
title: "10.9"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/10.9/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro 10.9 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
weight: 91
# System requirements: Java updates for 10.10, and 10.17
# KI: "Line endings": SOLP-1794 
# KI: "A finished parallel split path": WOR-1623
# KI: "Positioning error": LFX-712
---

## 10.9.0 {#1090}

**Release date: March 27, 2024**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/10.9.0" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 10.9.0 from the Marketplace" %}}

### New Features

#### X-Ray Mode (Beta)

We are adding a feature to **Design mode**: X-Ray mode. X-Ray mode allows you to see certain structural elements of your page while still in **Design mode**. This feature adds a special border to certain widgets, such as layout grids and containers. You can also change their sizes. 

When the X-Ray mode feature is enabled, the X-Ray mode itself can be toggled on or off with a button on the top bar. Turning X-Ray mode off returns the page to the WYS/WYG editor of **Design mode**.

As **Structure mode** is not supported on Mac, we are enabling X-Ray mode on Mac by default. 

On Windows, X-Ray mode can also be enabled in the **New features** section of **Preferences**. You can opt out of the beta by disabling the feature in **Preferences**. 

For more information, see [X-Ray Mode](/refguide/page/#x-ray-mode).

#### Session and Login Token Improvements

We introduced authentication token support for applications, allowing users to stay logged in until their token expires. 

Offline-first apps will use authentication tokens by default, providing compatibility with long-lived sessions in previous Mendix versions.

You can also use the new core client API, `login2`, with the useAuthToken argument, which allows you to specify whether to generate an authentication token for long-lived sessions. This can be used for both online and offline-first apps.

See [Session Management](/refguide/session-management/) for more information on how this works.

#### WebSQL replacement 

We introduced an alternative for WebSQL with this release. After upgrading to this release, opening your offline PWA in your browsers automatically upgrades your WebSQL database to a new SQLite-based database. For this to function correctly, the browser must run in a Secure Context, which means either an HTTPS connection or by accessing your offline PWA via localhost. All functionality will remain functioning as is.

#### Other New Features

* We added a **Continue All** button to the debugger. When there are multiple paused microflows, nanoflows, or rules, then they can all be continued by pressing a single button instead of having to continue them individually. 
* You can now indicate that a constant value is private (rather than shared). Studio Pro will store encrypted value in the user settings (instead of the app model). For more information, see the [Constants](/refguide/configuration/#constants) section in *Configurations*.

### Improvements

* We now use a fully qualified name for the **Override annotation** in generated Java proxy code. This reduces name clashes with the user code. (Ticket 210053)
* We improved the XPath constraint Visual Builder in a number of ways:
    * it now formats the XPath whenever a change is made.
    * it provides better feedback when unsupported association or attribute references are used in the XPath expression editor.
    * it provides better feedback when advanced token expressions are used in the XPath expression editor.
    * the order of the drop-down list items matches the autocomplete list in the XPath expression editor more closely.
* We now support the copy, cut, paste, and delete actions in MendixChat through a right-click context menu.
* We updated the fonts for MxChat, data filters, and **Start from spreadsheet** to those native to the operating system the app is currently running on.
* We extended logging during synchronization by tracking execution time of database commands. Warnings are printed when a command takes a long time, which is controlled with the custom runtime setting `LogMinDurationQuery`. A history of all commands is logged when an exception occurs during synchronization.
* In the Mendix React Client, we shortened the time it takes to bundle when rerunning an app.
* After changing the entity of a data source, we now update the attribute paths of the widgets within it with the new entity if the attribute exists in the new entity's type.
* In the Mendix React Client, we shortened the building time by exporting nanoflows in parallel. Moreover, when rerunning an app, nanoflows are selectively exported based on changes.
* The behavior of the autocomplete for editing page and microflow URLs was improved to suggest parameters and attributes more often.
* We improved Studio Pro general performance: simple object moves no longer trigger consistency checks in the logic editors.
* We improved positioning and layouting after Decisions are inserted via MxAssist.
* We added support for query string parameters to [microflow URLs](/refguide/microflow/#url). When configuring the URL of a microflow you can check the checkbox in the parameter table to configure that parameter as a query string parameters. Query string parameters are only supported for primitive microflow parameters.
* In the microflow, nanoflow, and rule editors, when dropping an object on a flow that is not vertical or horizontal, it will be positioned at the drop point instead of aligned to one of the adjacent objects.
* We added a **Show** button to the **Select {Document Type}** dialog box in Studio Pro to quickly open the selected document. 
* We have removed `react-native-code-push` dependency. We recommend migrating to Mendix OTA instead.
* Context menu options are now provided for the widgets that can be converted to the modern (Mendix React Client compatible) counterparts. The following conversions are now possible: data grid widgets can be converted to data grid 2 widgets, static and dynamic image widgets can be converted to image widgets, and drop-down widgets can be converted to combo box widgets. The conversion might require the latest modern widget versions from the Marketplace. For more information, see Mendix React Client's [Migration Guide](/refguide/mendix-client/react/#migration-guide).
* We changed the button captions for the data grid 2 generate columns dialog box to make it clear that the generation can be skipped when selecting a data source.    
* We now support HTTP Method `DELETE` in a consumed REST service (beta).
* We now support multiple parameters for values of request headers in a Consumed REST service.
* You can now prevent published OData Actions from including a `@context` attribute in the response by specifying `metadata=none` in the `Accept` header of the request.
* The request body for OData actions are now marked as required in OpenAPI if it has at least one required parameter.
* We improved the CORS settings for published REST services. Studio Pro now requires a constant for Allowed origins. The previous default of All origins is not the right value in most scenarios.
* We added the `com.mendix.core.ScheduledEventsCleanupBatchSize` and `com.mendix.core.ProcessedTasksCleanupBatchSize` runtime settings to configure the batch size for the periodic cleanup of `ScheduledEventInformation` and `ProcessedTasks`.
* We now support calling stored **Procedures** with no parameters using the External Database Connector. You can browse through all **Procedures** in the **Browse database** tab. We also added a **Refresh** button to provide to quick access to the updated data. 
* The External Database Connector is now available for Studio Pro on Mac (Beta).
* Data Importer is now available for Studio Pro on Mac (Beta).

### Fixes

* <a id="fix-macos-context-actions"></a>We fixed a [known issue](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.8/#ki-macos-context-actions) on macOS where context actions in the **App Explorer** and the **Edit** menu were not properly registered for the currently selected element.
* <a id="fix-logic-editors-not-set"></a>We fixed a [known issue](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.6/#ki-logic-editors-not-set) in the logic editors where sometimes the type of an output variable of an activity was showed as **Not set**. (Tickets 205751, 207251)
* <a id="fix-runtime-settings"></a>We restored the original functionality in Azure file storage, where a container name can be specified in `com.mendix.storage.azure.BlobEndpoint` runtime setting. This fixes a [known issue](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.7/#ki-runtime-settings). (Ticket 210679)
* We fixed an issue where a concurrency error happened when retrieving a session while optimistic locking was enabled. (Tickets 183769, 198138)
* We fixed an issue where a generic unique constraint validation error was thrown instead of a user defined one when multiple objects were committed at the same time. (Ticket 201463)
* We fixed an issue where download file was not working on Android if the files encryption was enabled. (Tickets 204783, 204891, 211451)
* We fixed an issue with breaking glyph fonts on some machines. (Ticket 206544, 207012)
* We fixed an issue where dependency synchronization would fail with a CE9803 error when Gradle could not choose between different version variants (for example: guava:##.##.##-jre/guava:##.##.##-android) for certain libraries. We added a Gradle core plugin (jvm-ecosystem) to the buildscript to resolve this issue. (Ticket 206976)
* We fixed an issue where the entered text does not get saved in the Text editor control. (Ticket 207346)
* We improved the memory consumption in Studio Pro by resolving a memory leak caused by checkable menu items. (Ticket 207357)
* We fixed an issue where using an object type decision in nanoflows it did not fall back to a generalization in case there was no path for the real entity type. (Ticket 207594)
* We fixed an issue where custom content in pluggable widgets, e.g. Data grid 2 or selectable objects for the Combo box, were including the objects of the data source in **Save changes** and **Cancel changes** actions, even when it was only used for display. (Ticket 207911)
* We fixed an issue where importing a JSON string with a length greater than 20000000 resulted in a runtime exception. We added the `mapping.import.MaxJsonReadingLength` runtime setting to manually configure the maximum length of a JSON string to resolve this issue. (Tickets 208462, 211077)
* We fixed an issue when an entity with validation rules could not be moved from module to another module via **Move to** operation. (Ticket 208691)
* We added a workaround for an issue in the Oracle JDBC driver that caused an exception about incorrect data types during object creation. (Ticket 209513)
* We fixed an issue when the text box has an invalid layout in the SQL query editor dialog box. (Ticket 209558)
* We fixed an issue where an unnecessary **Widget must be read-only** consistency error was triggered. (Ticket 209851)
* We fixed an issue when the **Oops** pop-up window appeared when trying to move a remote entity with one-way navigable associations. (Ticket 210793)
* We fixed an issue when the expression editor option does not get saved in the preference dialog.
* We fixed an issue where inserting an external action from an OData source into a microflow did not add the correct entities to the domain model.
* We fixed an issue with opening multiple pages in a microflow that have a custom URL when also using a custom URL prefix in the Mendix React client.
* In the Mendix React Client, we fixed an issue where bundling happened twice.
* The template placeholder for page templates now no longer throws a consistency error when using the Mendix React client.
* We fixed an issue where the workflow engine might fail with an `IllegalArgumentException` while persisting the workflow to the database.
* We now show a proper user facing error when you try to set an outcome for an already completed multi-user task in workflows.
* We fixed some spurious foreign key constraint violation errors when using the built-in database (HSQLDB) and foreign key constraints.
* We introduced more consistency checks for **Send REST Request (beta)**.
* We fixed an issue where resolving a consistency error for mapping document ran the whole consistency check instead of only the impacted documents.
* We now let a consumed REST service skip response elements that are not supported, like arrays with items that are not all the same type. When this happens a warning is shown.
* We fixed a bug related to the published REST services not specifying the wrong method in case of a 405 response.
* We fixed an issue in the microflow, nanoflow and rule editors where some combination of splits, merges, and events was connected incorrectly when dragged onto a flow.
* We reintroduced dropping documents from the **App Explorer** onto related actions in the logic editors. For example, now dropping a microflow onto a **Call microflow** action changes this action's target to the dropped microflow.
* We now render the task queue icon on **Microflow call** actions and **Java action call** actions when they are executed in a task queue.
* We fixed some features of resizing objects in the logic editors. Resizing from the center with the <kbd>Shift</kbd> key is back. The minimum step size for resizing is increased. Snap corner to corner while resizing is available now.
* We fixed an issue that prevented the display of the icon for *commit actions with event handlers* in the logic editors.
* In the logic editors, we re-added the initialized and changed attribute names to the default captions of **Create object** and **Change object** actions.
* We fixed an issue where double-clicking on a newly added microflow object opened the microflow properties dialog box.
* We fixed invalid placement of a moved object in a loop when moving the object causes the loop to resize in the logic editors.
* We fixed an issue where, if the call microflow activity of the sub-workflow fails, the parent workflow still remained in progress. The parent workflow will now fail when any activity in a sub-workflow fails.
* We fixed the problem that anonymous user objects were kept in the database when their associated anonymous sessions were deleted on application startup after a model update.
* We fixed an issue where conflicts were being shown on Studio Pro auto-generated content ( example on *vendorlib-sbom.json*) during rebase and merge.

### Known Issues

* Disabling Custom Scheduled Events in the **App Settings** > **Configurations** has no effect and they will still run on their scheduled time. Toggling on a disabled Scheduled Event will also have no effect. 
    * Fixed in [10.11.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.11/#fix-scheduled-events).
* When using a microflow decision method for a multi-user task in workflows, the `System.WorkflowUserTask` is always `empty`.
    * Fixed in [10.12](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.12/#fix-workflow-parameter) 
* Line endings in CSS files are not being handled properly, so when using [Revert All Changes](/refguide/using-version-control-in-studio-pro/) or performing other version-control operations, CSS files appear in the [Changes on Disk](/refguide/version-control-menu/#show-changes) dialog box.
    * Workaround: For details, see [this section](/refguide/troubleshoot-version-control-issues/#css-error) in *Troubleshooting Version Control*.
* A finished parallel split path that is removed from a running workflow instance wrongly leads to a versioning conflict. Please note that "path" was called "branch" in earlier versions.
* There is a positioning error in the logic editors when you are dragging a large element, such as a loop, into a sequence flow, it overlaps with the existing elements.
