---
title: "7.15"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/7.15/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Desktop Modeler version 7.15 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
aliases:
    - /releasenotes/desktop-modeler/7.15.html
    - /releasenotes/desktop-modeler/7.15
weight: 85
---

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
Downloading private content in the Marketplace available in the Desktop Modeler has been disabled due to a security risk. Please see this issue described in the [Marketplace release notes](/releasenotes/app-store/#private-fix) for more information and details about where to find your private content.
{{% /alert %}}

## 7.15.1  {#7151}

**Release date: May 29th, 2018**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "7.15.1" %}}

{{% youtube rRJOmJI3b-I %}}

### Productivity Improvements

#### Faster Access to Apps

We made your recent apps available when you right-click the Desktop Modeler icon on the Windows taskbar. This makes it possible to start the Modeler and immediately open a project.

#### Text Template Formatting Options

When defining parameters for the text widget, you can now also set formatting options for numeric attributes and date and time attributes. Additionally, the decimal precision is no longer shown for integer/long attributes, for which it does not apply.

#### Date and Time Formatting Improvements

When choosing a date format, a formatted example date is now shown as a preview, so that you can immediately see the result of the chosen format. 

In addition, when you are creating a custom date format, you no longer have to remember all the formatting tokens, as there is now an edit button that shows a legend of the available tokens with descriptions. When you double-click a token, it is added to the end
of the custom date you are editing.

### Calling Services

We added more configuration options to how you can call web and REST services:

* We re-implemented the [call web service](/refguide7/call-web-service-action/) action. For a while, we provided the option to use the old implementation by specifying it in the project settings.
* It is now possible to dynamically configure proxy settings in the [call web service](/refguide7/call-web-service-action/) and [call REST service](/refguide7/call-rest-action/) actions. For web services, this is only supported with the new implementation of the [call web service](/refguide7/call-web-service-action/) action.
* The timeout for the the [call web service](/refguide7/call-web-service-action/) and [call REST service](/refguide7/call-rest-action/) actions can now be specified using a microflow expression.

### IBM Swift Storage

We upgraded our OpenStack4j core and http-client dependencies from 3.0.3 to 3.1.0. These are used for IBM Swift Storage.

### New Features

* We added several features that give you more control over the interactive documentation pages of published REST services. You can now mark operations as deprecated as well as write example values and documentation for individual items in message definitions.
* You can now give descriptive names to message definitions.
* When you run **Map automatically** on a mapping that is based on a JSON structure, any generated string attributes now have unlimited length. To get this to work for existing JSON structures, click **Refresh** in the JSON structure first.
* You can now publish microflows as REST operations by right-clicking in the microflow editor and selecting that publishing option.
* We added a tab for REST services to the **Module Security** dialog box. This provides a different way to configure roles for REST services.

### Fixes

* <a name="63507"></a>We fixed the bug that caused the templates of a list view to not be cleared correctly when creating a building block or page template. Because of this, a project containing a document with a list view with templates could not be opened. (Ticket 63507)
* We fixed an issue where generating a select page for a reference selector that pointed to an attribute of a generalization caused the select page to be generated for the generalization instead of for the entity of the reference selector. The correct entity is now used when generating a select page. (Ticket 62952)
* There used to be an invisible widget called **Vertical Flow** that would sometimes rear its ugly head in the **Changes** pane and even cause conflicts. This invisible widget is now gone and has been replaced by a much better solution.
* Custom widgets that depend on the defaults for the `location` parameter to `mx.ui.openForm` were broken in 7.14.1 due to some internal changes. We are now using the proper defaults again. (Ticket 64516) 
* We fixed an issue where `mx.data.get` with an XPath expression including `filter.references` for a 1-to-1 reference failed to execute. (Ticket 61824)
* We now show a translated generic error message in the current user's language when something goes wrong on the server. (Ticket 44849)
* We fixed an issue where objects over association were not accessible in microflows because they were not sent along with the request from the client. (Ticket 60399)
* We fixed an issue where the sort settings of a reference selector are not applied when they are bound to a calculated attribute. (Ticket 63282)
* We fixed an issue where a "positive number" validation failed if a non-numeric value was entered for the number input. (Ticket 62612)
* We fixed an issue where incorrect parameters were passed for a reference set selector on-change microflow. (Ticket 63662)
* We fixed an issue where the Modeler crashed when there was no **JDK directory** specified in the **Preferences** dialog box. (Ticket 64343)
* We fixed an issue where an application restarted after clicking **Run Locally** while debugging. (Ticket 63648)
* A microflow will now always auto-expand when you add objects to it. Previously, it expanded only when you added an object from the microflow editor toolbar.
* The **call REST service** action no longer sets a default content type in POST operations. (Ticket 63538)
* We fixed an issue in published REST services where authentication failed if the password contained a colon.
* We fixed an issue where trace logging call REST service actions failed for POST requests without a body.
* We fixed an issue for users using the Desktop Modeler behind a proxy. They can now retrieve the WSDL of a consumed web service via a URL and do not have to download it first. (Ticket 63777)
* We fixed an issue with OData where selecting specific fields that have exposed names made some of the fields go blank. (Ticket 63941)
* We fixed an issue where enabling MTOM on a consumed web service did not warn that schema validation was not possible in combination with MTOM.
* We fixed an issue where renaming a module role that had been granted access to a REST service did not rename the module role there.
* We fixed an issue where calling a REST service passed the latest HTTP response and headers to the browser. (Ticket 64547)

### Known Issues

* Users with non-administrative [user roles](/refguide/user-roles/) with the permission to manage users are able to escalate their privileges. For more information on this vulnerability, see [SSA-875726 Privilege Escalation Vulnerability in Mendix](https://new.siemens.com/global/en/products/services/cert.html#SecurityPublications).
	* Fixed in [7.23.19](/releasenotes/studio-pro/7.23/#875726).
* In some situations, an object associated to another object cannot be committed during the execution of a before/after commit event, resulting in an error such as "Object of type 'MyModule.MyEntity' with guid '12345' cannot be updated, as it does not exist anymore." For example, consider two new objects `A` and `B`, wherein `A` (parent) is associated with `B` (child) and `A` has a before- or after-commit event. In this event, `B` will be changed and committed. If you then commit `A`, `B` will be marked as 'autocommitting'. Because of this, committing `B` in the before- or after-commit event of `A` will fail, as it expects `A` to already exist in the database, which is not yet the case. (Tickets 59099, 59288)
	* Fixed in [7.16.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/7.16/#59099).


