---
title: "7.16"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/7.16/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Desktop Modeler version 7.16 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
aliases:
    - /releasenotes/desktop-modeler/7.16.html
    - /releasenotes/desktop-modeler/7.16
weight: 84
---

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
Downloading private content in the Marketplace available in the Desktop Modeler has been disabled due to a security risk. Please see this issue described in the [Marketplace release notes](/releasenotes/app-store/#private-fix) for more information and details about where to find your private content.
{{% /alert %}}

## 7.16.0 {#7160}

**Release date: July 3rd, 2018**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "7.16.0" %}}

{{% youtube 2Li3ROVndL0 %}}

### Productivity Improvements

#### View Mode

In addition to editing pages in the trusty wire-frame view we all know and love, the Desktop Modeler now supports an additional WYSIWYG view mode. The view mode provides an easy way to see the visual design of the created page without having to deploy your app or run locally. Simply click the **Edit/View** toggle in the upper-right corner of your page editor and the tab will switch to the WYSIWYG-based preview of the page. 

As the view mode is based on actual browser technology, it provides a quick and easy way to show what the effect of changes is on the actual end-user experience. Moreover, in the view mode you have immediate feedback on what a responsive page will look like on phone, tablet or desktop device. Use the device switcher toggle to preview the end-result for every device type.

In Mendix 7.16, the view mode has full support for pages based on Mendix Atlas UI containing only directly linked theme files, like CSS and fonts. Support for pages containing custom themes or externally linked theming files will be added in the future.

#### Extracting a Single Action or Loop as a Sub-MicroFlow

We added the possibility to extract a single action or a single loop as a sub-microflow. 

{{% alert color="info" %}}
This is based on an [upvoted idea from Fabian Recktenwald](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas/685) submitted to the [Mendix Idea Forum](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas). Thanks, Fabian!
{{% /alert %}}

### Input Widget Label Improvements

When dragging an input widget onto a page, the label is now visible immediately.

When dragging an attribute onto an input widget with **Show label** set to **No**, the label will stay hidden.

{{% alert color="info" %}}
This is based on an [upvoted idea from Chris de Gelder](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas/163) submitted to the [Mendix Idea Forum](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas). Nice one, Chris!
{{% /alert %}}

When dragging an attribute onto an input widget, the label will be updated if no attribute was selected or if the label still has its default value. The label update can be undone separately from the attribute update.

### Generate REST Operations

You can now easily generate REST operations:

* You can generate a published REST operation by right-clicking an entity in the domain model, or by dragging an entity or a message definition to the list or resources. This generates fully functional REST operations to get all, get by ID, post, and delete.
* You can create a published REST operation by dragging a microflow to the list of operations.
* You can generate a message definition by dragging an entity to a message definition collection.
* You can generate an import mapping and export mapping from a message definition.

### New Features

* In order to improve the monitorability of Mendix applications, we added Managed Beans that comply with the JMX specification and expose aggregate statistics about requests, transactions, database queries, authenticated and anonymous sessions, and named users.
* We added the custom setting `com.mendix.storage.s3.MaxConnections` to override the default maximum connections limit in the Amazon S3 Service. If not specified, this setting is set to the value defined by `DEFAULT_MAX_CONNECTIONS` of the AWS S3 ClientConfiguration interface. The default value is enough for most applications, so we do not recommend explicitly setting this setting to a custom value unless a larger maximum connections limit is absolutely necessary. (Ticket 64477)
* We created a new stylesheet for the API documentation (`/api-doc`, `/rest-doc`, `/ws-doc`, and `/odata-doc`).

### Fixes

* Logging a warning in a nanoflow broke when it was pushed to the Desktop Modeler console log. This works as intended now. (Ticket 65080)
* We fixed an issue where a reference set selector did not apply the selection when **Constrained by** was configured. (Tickets 61377, 63872)
* We fixed an issue where a Java action with the type parameter(s) did not get uncommitted changes from the client during microflow execution. (Ticket 60911)
* There were situations when users of online hybrid mobile applications were logged out if they had their app minimized for 15–20 minutes. We fixed that. (Tickets 63853, 64387, 65079)	
* We fixed the issues occuring in the latest Microsoft Edge version where some of widgets on the page were not properly destroyed when navigating. (Tickets 64692, 64778, 64918, 64938)
* We fixed an issue where list views triggered an error pop-up window if they received updates while being removed from the page. (Ticket 62996)
* When navigating back to a grid with multiple search fields for the same attribute, the search values were not restored correctly. This has been fixed. (Ticket 56581)
* When you added a microflow or nanoflow button inside a data view or list view and then decided to create a new one from the microflow selector, the created microflow did not contain the parameters of the enclosing entity. This has been fixed. (Ticket 51475)
* The class and style of an authentication text box was not applied if no label was shown. This has been fixed. (Ticket 56224)
* The **Show home page** microflow action now opens the correct home page for each profile. (Tickets 59483, 61362, 62020)
* <a name="59099"></a>We fixed the exception that occurred when committing an object during a before-commit event. (Tickets 59099, 59288, 63789, 64537)
* During synchronization, if an attribute was removed and a unique constraint was added on another attribute, there was a chance that a failure would occur. This has been fixed. (Ticket 64871)
* We fixed an issue in the call web service action where you had to close the dialog box and open it again in order to show a newly created web service.
* We fixed an issue in app services where renaming an attribute when it was published as a draft app service made its value appear empty in the app service. (Ticket 363235)
* We fixed an issue in published REST services where you had to re-select the export mapping when you changed the HTTP method of an operation to HEAD.
* We fixed an issue in published REST services where using a JSON snippet triggered an exception when calling the operation. (Ticket 64649)
* We fixed an issue where the interactive documentation page triggered an error message about empty definitions.
* We fixed an issue where you could make the name of a published REST service empty. That is not allowed anymore, because it showed an empty link in `/rest-doc`. 
* We fixed an issue where an anonymous user using a REST service was not logged out.
* We fixed an issue where a microflow used inside an import mapping got passed an empty value for an attribute in the root of an entity message definition.
* We fixed an issue where integration microflow actions allowed you to create duplicate variable names, resulting in a consistency error. This is now a validation when you click **OK**.
* We fixed an issue where an invalid XSD triggered an error pop-up window instead of a consistency error.
* An exception no longer occurs in a published web service operation that takes an entity parameter where **Include tags for associations** is unchecked. (Ticket 65525)
* Unnecessary memory usage is now avoided during request execution. (Tickets 63392, 63541, 63979, 64427)

### Known Issues

* Users with non-administrative [user roles](/refguide/user-roles/) with the permission to manage users are able to escalate their privileges. For more information on this vulnerability, see [SSA-875726 Privilege Escalation Vulnerability in Mendix](https://new.siemens.com/global/en/products/services/cert.html#SecurityPublications).
	* Fixed in [7.23.19](/releasenotes/studio-pro/7.23/#875726).
