---
title: "7.22"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/7.22/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Desktop Modeler version 7.22 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
aliases:
    - /releasenotes/desktop-modeler/7.22.html
    - /releasenotes/desktop-modeler/7.22
weight: 78
---

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
Downloading private content in the Marketplace available in the Desktop Modeler has been disabled due to a security risk. Please see this issue described in the [Marketplace release notes](/releasenotes/app-store/#private-fix) for more information and details about where to find your private content.
{{% /alert %}}

## 7.22.2 {#7222}

**Release date: January 8th, 2019**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "7.22.2" %}}

### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where the wrong navigation profile names were shown.

### Known Issues

* In some cases, while doing an error check, the progress bar starts moving and does not stop. This is a user interface problem, as the error check itself finishes properly. (Ticket 69295)
	* Fixed in [7.23.7](/releasenotes/studio-pro/7.23/#69295).
* There is a problem where it is not possible to commit after merging a branch. (Tickets 78468, 78322, 79166, 78542, 76785, 77955, 77245)
	* Fixed in [7.23.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/7.23/#78468).

## 7.22.1 {#7221}

**Release date: January 4th, 2019**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "7.22.1" %}}

### Fixes

* <a name="77902"></a>We fixed an issue where the Modeler stopped responding to open context menus, open menu bar items like the **File** menu, shortcut keys like <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>S</kbd>, and the <kbd>Delete</kbd> button. (Tickets 77932, 77902, 77598) 
* The items in the **Run** menu > **Debug** as well as shortcut keys like <kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>F6</kbd> were not responding to stepping through the microflow if your application was running locally and it stopped the execution at a breakpoint in a microflow. This issue is now fixed. (Ticket 78125)

### Known Issues

* Users with non-administrative [user roles](/refguide/user-roles/) with the permission to manage users are able to escalate their privileges. For more information on this vulnerability, see [SSA-875726 Privilege Escalation Vulnerability in Mendix](https://new.siemens.com/global/en/products/services/cert.html#SecurityPublications).
	* Fixed in [7.23.19](/releasenotes/studio-pro/7.23/#875726).
* In some cases, while doing an error check, the progress bar starts moving and does not stop. This is a user interface problem, as the error check itself finishes properly. (Ticket 69295)
	* Fixed in [7.23.7](/releasenotes/studio-pro/7.23/#69295).
* There is a problem where it is not possible to commit after merging a branch. (Tickets 78468, 78322, 79166, 78542, 76785, 77955, 77245)
	* Fixed in [7.23.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/7.23/#78468).
	
## 7.22.0 {#7220}

**Release date: December 20th, 2018**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "7.22.0/" %}}

### New Features

* You can now add images of the scalable vector graphics (SVG) type to the Desktop Modeler and use them on your pages. Some complicated SVG images may not be visualized properly in the Modeler, but they will still work fine in the web browser when running your app.
    {{% alert color="info" %}}This is based on an [upvoted idea from Steve Aylwin](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas/200) submitted to the [Mendix Idea Forum](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas). Thanks, Steve!
    {{% /alert %}}
* We added a new nanoflow action for triggering offline synchronization. Now you can make synchronization part of your offline business logic!

### Improvements

* In the [import mapping action](/refguide7/import-mapping-action/), you can now choose to import an HTTP response. This means that you no longer need to first use a [create variable](/refguide7/create-variable/) action to turn the content of the HTTP response into a string.
* In [published REST services](/refguide7/published-rest-services/), when you generate a post or a patch operation from an entity, the import mapping is now set to commit with events.
* We have upgraded our internal server Jetty to version 9.4.14.v20181114.
* We have upgraded the Bouncy Castle encryption library to [version 1.60](https://www.bouncycastle.org/latest_releases.html).
* We have updated *aws-java-sdk-s3.jar* to version 1.11.452.
* We have deprecated `MendixHashString.setInitialHash` and `MendixHashString.setHash` in favor of `MendixHashString.setValue`, which accepts a plain-text password and hashes it.
* If you have not switched to the [new (optimized) implementation for web service calls](/refguide7/project-settings/#web-service-calls), we now show a warning message during your application startup.
* Action button with render mode link is now complies WAI-ARIA 1.1 recommendations.

### Fixes

* <a name="76928"></a>We fixed exporting and importing individual documents. (Ticket 76928, 77506, 77587)
* <a name="77000"></a>We fixed a memory leak that occurred when using the call REST service action or call web service action. (Tickets 77000, 77257, 77788, 77813)
* We fixed an issue that occurred when you had two image collections containing images with the same name and only the images from one collection were used. The consequence of this is that the name of the deployed image now includes the name of the image collection (for example, `/img/Administration$information_italic.png` becomes `/img/Administration$Images$information_italic.png`). 
	* **Conversion update**: If you are using such deployed images in CSS or custom widgets, you need to update these paths.
* We fixed an issue where data grid tooltips were rendered empty. (Tickets 76766, 76461)
* We fixed an issue where uploading files to Amazon S3 resulted in an error saying "ClassNotFoundException." The default SAX parser is now *com.sun.org.apache.xerces.internal.parsers.SAXParser*. (Tickets 76215, 76338, 76635)
* We fixed an issue in [published OData services](/refguide7/published-odata-services/) where trying to expose the "many" side of an association while publishing as associated IDs did not result in a consistency error.
* We fixed an issue in [import mappings](/refguide7/import-mappings/) based on [message definitions](/refguide7/message-definitions/) where using a microflow that took the mapping parent as a parameter resulted in an empty value. (Ticket 76378)
* We fixed a UI inconsistency that occurred when editing the location of a [REST service](/refguide7/published-rest-service/) and you had an application root URL that did not end with a slash. We now append the slash in the UI.
* We fixed an issue where template grids would miscalculate their height, sometimes mistakenly obscuring their content. (Ticket 77202)
* We fixed a performance issue in the **Connector** pane that should improve the time it takes to select items in the page editor by several seconds in large projects. (Ticket 63851)
* After being redirected to the login page of a hybrid app, an incorrect CSS class was set on the page. This has been fixed. (Ticket 65363)
* Consistency checks no longer run very slowly on larger projects. (Ticket 63851)
* A list view with a listening data view did not show its first item as selected when loading the page, even though the item was actually selected and shown in the data view correctly. (Tickets 68156, 76953)
* An empty data view no longer shows an error message in the page. (Ticket 77112)
* We fixed an issue in MySQL where TimeStamp parameters were not converted from long/string parameters when calculating the difference between two dates.

### Known Issues

* Users with non-administrative [user roles](/refguide/user-roles/) with the permission to manage users are able to escalate their privileges. For more information on this vulnerability, see [SSA-875726 Privilege Escalation Vulnerability in Mendix](https://new.siemens.com/global/en/products/services/cert.html#SecurityPublications).
	* Fixed in [7.23.19](/releasenotes/studio-pro/7.23/#875726).
* In some cases, while doing an error check, the progress bar starts moving and does not stop. This is a user interface problem, as the error check itself finishes properly. (Ticket 69295)
	* Fixed in [7.23.7](/releasenotes/studio-pro/7.23/#69295).
* There is a problem where it is not possible to commit after merging a branch. (Tickets 78468, 78322, 79166, 78542, 76785, 77955, 77245)
	* Fixed in [7.23.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/7.23/#78468).
* In certain situations, the Modeler stops responding to shortcut keys. We are investigating where this behavior is coming from. (Ticket 77902)
    * Fixed in [7.22.1](#77902).
