---
title: "1.10.0"
space: "Release Notes"
category: "APM"
---
This is a release with customer requested features.

## Viewing and editing details of recorded sessions and snapshots
There was a customer request to rename recorded sessions. This is now possible, as well as
renaming statistics tool snapshots. 

The performance and the statistics tool also show details of the recording or snapshot.

You can prevent a snapshot or recorded session from being deleted by cleanup 
functionality. This last function also is applied to traps, logs and triggered events.

## Message trigger
Another customer asked if it was possible to collect information when a certain message
was logged, for example a failed login. The trap tool works for errors (or optionally 
for warnings), but not for information messages. Now you can define a pattern for an 
info message that triggers an event with the same options as the triggers in the 
measurements tool or the statistics tool.

## Trigger log action with level
The trigger log action now has a level. You can use this for critical messages and thus 
receive an email when you run in the Mendix cloud.

You could also use debug level to output measurement data, so when a trap occurs you have
measurement information inside the trap.

## Trigger action notify
Many customers have asked to receive notifications.

A new notify action on triggers has been introduced. This action will call a microflow 
with 3 string parameters **To**, **Subject** and **Message**. Several replaced can be done
to ease the configuration of the strings. A sample microflow has been added to log on this action.

The idea hovever is to call your own microflow that sends out an e-mail. The APMAgent module will
not include an e-mail facility itself to prevent conflicts with existing e-mail,
 so this is the way to get notifications out.

## Enhanced Trap Tool protections
The trap tool now has a separate buffer for storing traps in memory that are written to
the database and a configuration of the maximum of records in the database. This helps you
to store more records in the database and run the trap tool with less impact on your system.

At the same time we fixed a bug in the traptool that left empty trap records when deleting
the oldest trap messages. Now the oldest trap gets completely deleted if the database limit
is reached.

## Other fixes/improvements
*   The licensing mechanism is improved, so we can issue a one time code immediatly. 
When entering this code in the 'license request code' field during the installation 
of APM a license key will automatically be generated (24/7 within a minute given the 
license server is up)
*	Measurements search tab shows the values in a decimal format with 2 decimals so 
it is more readable
*	Renamed java parameter that gave issues in installation of APM in some Mendix releases
*	Fixed some mappings in OData
*	Improved sample data for measurements, queries, exclusions and a statistics trigger
*	Tester/Developer features like APM Tool runtime statistics on a developer page (as 
developer) and a page with test feautes are removed from APM Tool.
*	A random ofset is added in the measurements tool scheduled events to make sure they 
do not run at the very same time if they have the same frequency. This should spread 
CPU usage and give a better performance. 
*	The automatic data cleanup now runs at midnight

