---
title: "1.5"
url: /releasenotes/private-platform/1-6/
description: "Release notes for version 1.6 of Private Mendix Platform"
weight: 10
tags: ["Private Mendix Platform", "Private Platform"]
---

These release notes cover changes made to the [Private Mendix Platform](/private-mendix-platform/) in version 1.6:

## 1.6.0

### Release date: January 31, 2024

Version 1.6.0 of Private Mendix Platform is an MTS release and introduces Mendix 10 on Private Mendix Platform. The release is focused on long-term stability, maturation, and automation, as well as on introducing many of the new functionalities and features of the latest-greatest Mendix major version to customers in private development environments.

#### New Features

#### Mendix 10 Support

With this release Private Mendix Platform now supports Mendix 10, having Studio Pro 10.6.1 bundled and patchable to work with the Private Platform. Mendix 10 with Studio Pro 10.6 contains many improvements, such as:

* A significantly enhanced Developer Experience that boasts many of the best features of the former Studio web modeler as part of the Studio Fusion program
* Light and Dark modes for a more comfortable and personalized work experience
* Support for installation on machines without Administrator rights
* Improved UI and extended capabilities to make building complex workflows much easier
* Industry-first AI and Machine Learning tools accessible through the IDE, as well as connectors and modules found in the Marketplace
* The ability to easily drag and drop AI/ML models into your application, embed them into your Mendix runtime, and interact with them via microflows.

For a full overview of Mendix 10 benefits, see [What’s New](https://www.mendix.com/whats-new/) and [the Studio Pro release documentation](https://docs.mendix.com/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.6/).

#### Improvements

##### Download Portal Improvements

###### Checksums Added

To ensure the integrity and security of your Private Mendix Platform installer, we have added checksums to the download portal. New releases are signed with an SHA-256 checksum, which can be copied or downloaded to verify the integrity of the downloaded artifact.

#### Fixes

We have provided the following fixes:

* Fixed alignment issues in PDFs generated from archived Platform logs.
* Resolved an issue with  creating a new app in an air-gapped scenario with no Marketplace templates loaded.
* Resolved an issue with changing the app name that occurred under certain combinations of settings.
* Fixed the date format in the Marketplace **Item** view in both Web UI and In-IDE.
* Fixed unchanged locale date and time preferences in some places.
* Minor layout corrections for the **General Settings** page.
* Fixed an issue with button styling on the **Help** page.
* Various fixes for the Download Portal.

#### Known Issues

* We are temporarily unable to support newer Studio Pro 9.24 LTS patch versions with Private Mendix Platform. Until this matter is resolved in a published release of Studio Pro, Private Mendix Platform remains compatible only with Studio Pro 9.24.3.