---
title: "3.1"
parent: "3"
toc-level: "2"
---

## 3.1.1

* Ticket 10606: Fixed problem with reference selectors using the 'constrained by' feature.

## 3.1.0

### Features

* Ticket 9547, 10009: Made merge dialog more intuitive and added more options to merge changes from/to arbitrary development lines.
* Tickets 9865, 9939: You can now revert deleted documents, folders and modules. Note that you will get back the latest committed version.
* Tickets 9940, 9941: Added support for viewing the changes of a conflicted document that was deleted by one party and changed by the other.
* Ticket 10154, 10211: Restored 'Refresh time' property on data grids and added it to template grids as well.
* Ticket 9756: Added new selection mode to data grid, template grid and reference set selector that requires using Ctrl+Click to select multiple items.
* Ticket 9075: Added option to not generate header and footer on the first page of a document.
* Ticket 9664: Added option to file manager and image uploader widgets to restrict the allowed file extensions.
* Ticket 9850: Added advanced find feature that searches for microflows of a specified size.

### Usability improvements

* Ticket 9833: Improved error message when deploying to the cloud fails.
* Ticket 9716: The latest revision is selected by default when deploying to the cloud.
* Ticket 9546: The changes tab now allows you to filter the type of changes.
* Ticket 9739: Improved success message when deploying to the cloud. The version number is now specified.
* Ticket 9847: Added default revision numbers in the merge dialog.
* Ticket 10027: Made error pane resizable.
* Ticket 9962: Added a warning if there are uncommitted changes when deploying to the cloud.
* Ticket 9720: Added close button to Modeler sign-in form.

### Other improvements

* Ticket 10227: Check version in which a model was created versus the actual runtime version.
* Ticket 10109: Check whether a correct JDK version is being used when starting runtime.
* Ticket 9714: Improved appcontainer shutdown logging.
* Tickets 7756, 7680: New Java actions now throw an exception by default, instead of doing nothing (return true).
* Ticket 9923: Installer installs JDK 1.6 update 27 if no 1.6 JDK was found.
* Ticket 10092: Improved microflow debug and trace logging.
* Ticket 9662: Show customizable error message when invalid image was uploaded (without trace information).
* Ticket 10149: Added FileID as an index to the FileDocument entity.
* Ticket 9650: Determine whether to output date and/or time component for CSV exports of DateTime columns

### Fixes

* Ticket 10349: Fixed memory leak when using XML-to-domain mappings
* Ticket 9531, 10381: The tree in the connector in the Modeler does not collapse after dragging something out of it.
* Tickets 9409, 9129: Added support for the Dutch language to generated forms.
* Ticket 9783, 9930: Breakpoints inside looped activities did not work.
* Ticket 9858: Fixed bug that occurred when converting a 2.x project to 3.x and then immediately renaming an autonumber before deploying for the first time.
* Ticket 9164: Pass depth parameter for processor.get to runtime
* Ticket 9700: Clarified isNew and rollback behavior in the documentation.
* Ticket 10023: Fixed database synchronization error when renaming entities to each other's former name.
* Ticket 10151: When tracing select, insert and update queries, format timestamp in UTC time instead of the default localized server time.
* Ticket 10360: Document uploader didn't not show filename in IE.
* Ticket 7338, 9750: Custom webservice requests will now parse more than just the first element in the given text.
* Ticket 9964: Fixed filedocument issue for projects converted from 2.4.
* Ticket 9079: Improved date formats in document generator, based on language.
* Ticket 9654: Fixed a problem that occurred due to byte-order-marks in Java files.
* Ticket 9571: Correct escaping of chart xml data.
* Ticket 10018: Hitting enter to start editing value does not work.
* Ticket 10029: Fixed an issue that created redundant project directories.
* Ticket 9826: Fixed an issue that in rare cases would cause an error when opening a project.
* Ticket 9807: Improved error messages in data view control bar.
* Ticket 8266: Fixed parsing a date in microflow, correctly use user's locale.
* Ticket 9955: Opening modal popup from a modal popup.
* Ticket 10125, 10182: Fixed file download and upload under IE 9 in combination with the Mendix 3.0.0 Doctype.
* Ticket 9477: Fixed form export for nested dataviews wich have the same entity reference path as their container.
* Ticket 9836: Fixed a problem with repeatedly starting the runtime.
* Ticket 10020: An issue with multiple tokens in one XPath was resolved.
* Ticket 7814: Let float rounding be done automatically.
* Ticket 9660: Improved security checks for file manager, image viewer and image uploader.
* Ticket 9891: Fixed removing inheritance from System.User (or dropping that entity entirely) and renaming/removing a random entity that has an owner field.
* Ticket 9486: Fixed bug: XML-to-domain throws exception with apostrophe in key field.
* Ticket 9649: Fixed inheritance db synchronization error.
* Ticket 9220: Using onfocus event for onenter, instead of onclick.
* Ticket 10091: Showing warning message when navigating to closed form.
* Ticket 9945: Get correct current sequence name when renaming an entity and adding inheritance to it.
* Ticket 9771: Fixed exception in Export XML action when exporting without a parameter/top level element.
* Ticket 9872: XML export of root element should not contain mapping path information.
* Ticket 9778: Fixed an issue where an error in an Export XML activity could not be solved.
* Ticket 10336: Fixed order of sequence dropping when dropping and recreating an entity with the same name.
* Ticket 9656: Fixed an issue that caused unnecessary conflicts when updating, in particular when creating modules.
* Ticket 10013: Autonumber attributes will now be filled in the super entity when an entity with rows starts inheriting from it.
* Ticket 9776: Fixed: Chrome bug preventing multiple file uploads in the same form.
* Ticket 9876: Fit image to given dimensions while maintaining aspect ratio.
* Ticket 10176: Fixed a bug that occurred when adding a value to an enumeration used in conditional formatting.
* Ticket 10000: Fixed an error that could occur in the expression wizard form.
* Ticket 9912: Correctly use translation for popups in the client.
* Ticket 9584: Added option to rename images whose name is already in use when moving to another module.
* Ticket 9663: Improved error message for missing constant value.
* Ticket 10169: Set created date for objects created in an xml import triggered by a scheduled event.
* Ticket 9631: Select content of input mask on focus.
* Ticket 9629: Removing newlines from DataGrid content.
* Ticket 10003: Improved logging for failed file upload.
* Ticket 10252: NOT expression was missing in PostgreSQL SQL query when using the NOT and starts-with expressions combined.
* Tickets 9820, 9878: Added check to detect fully merged rows and columns in document templates. Such rows and columns would lead to errors when generating PDF documents.
* Ticket 10067: Fixed validation of manually entered Arabic dates.
* Ticket 9567: Removed unnecessary warning when deleting an object with a before delete event.
* Ticket 9438: Initialize input mask when shown by conditional formatting.
* Ticket 9755: Tabs showing validations of DataViewList.
* Ticket 9911: Setting correct content id to widgets in Template Grid.
* Ticket 9907: FileDocument.HasContents will be set to true when there are really files on disk when migrating from 2.4 to 2.5 or higher.
* Ticket 9633: Do not ask to clear reference when '.' is pressed in Chrome.
