---
title: "4.1"
parent: "4"
---

## 4.1.1

### Improvements

* Ticket 13272: Console logging in the Modeler and Eclipse has millisecond precision now.
 
### Fixes

* Ticket 13445: Fixed an issue where slf4j messages were printed on the console when starting the runtime.
* Ticket 13862: Improved memory usage and duration of migrations from Mendix 3 to 4.
* Ticket 13527: Fixed: input fields not being saved in Internet Explorer 8
* Ticket 13115: Fixed an issue where the contents of XML tags represented by object mapping elements would not be imported.
* Ticket 13911: Expiry of session should re-direct to login page.
* Ticket 13657: Fixed exception when exporting an image via a published webservice.
* Ticket 13639: Fixed dropdown buttons placed inside data views.
* Ticket 13398: Allow entering text with newlines as default value for String attributes.
* Ticket 13781: Fixed: executing datasource microflow twice after making a selection in the Reference Selector
* Ticket 13608: Fixed an issue where the 'with events' (lightning) icon was not displayed on the microflow delete and commit actions for list variables.
* Ticket 12965: On signout cleanup all references to the session signing out to prevent retaining cache objects for that session.
* Tickets 13681, 13920: Generate report - error when retrieving an associated dataview
* Tickets 13584, 13294: Fixed: preserve scroll position when navigating back to a form on mobile
* Ticket 13664: Corrected spelling error in Modeler progress forms.
* Tickets 13640, 13857: Fixed: scroll to top when opening a form on mobile
* Ticket 13760: Fixed not-null constraint violation database exceptions while migrating from Mendix 3 to 4 in case of some database corruption
* Ticket 13720: Fixed time editing of custom dates.
* Ticket 13615: Change items in the new 'Create' action were not found when searching for changes to attributes or associations in microflows.
* Ticket 13735: Fixed issue while generating 20M records.
* Ticket 14040: Fixed issue with recurring exceptions for different requests.
* Fixed an issue where some valid operations of an RPC-style web service, namely those with primitive message parts, were incorrectly marked as unsupported.
* Fixed usage of incorrect database column names.
* Java library xfc.jar updated to 4.7.
* Fixed bug in tab container export where the first page was sometimes mistakenly exported for delayed loading.
* Do not show control bar for mobile data views.
* Fixed data view tab index warning.
* Fixed other exceptions and items, some reported through the exception feedback mechanism (thank you!).

## 4.1.0

### Improvements

#### Version control

* Ticket 11547: The Modeler now uses the Subversion 1.7 working copy format. Existing working copies will be converted when opening with version 4.1.
* Ticket 10309: Changes in the domain model can be merged without conflicts more often.
* Ticket 12454: Improved merge behavior when independently translating the same text into different languages.
* Ticket 11390: Changes to the list of menu items can now be merged without conflicts.
* Ticket 12479: When reverting changes to a document, apply renames that result from the revert to prevent usage errors.
* Ticket 12615: Better error message when reverse-merging revisions that are newer then the revision of the working copy.
* Ticket 13237: Immediately create and commit all relevant files when creating a Team Server project to prevent file conflicts down the road.
* Ticket 10684: Auto-fill latest revision when creating a deployment package.
* Ticket 13162: Allow directly uploading a project to the Team Server when importing a project package (.mpk file).
* Ticket 13162: When opening an empty Team Server repository for the first time, inform the user about the options for initializing the repository.

#### Mobile

* Ticket 13289: Added mobile 'New' button that allows you to create an object and open it in a form.
* Ticket 12779: Added time and date/time picker to mobile.
* Ticket 13139: Added custom date formatting to mobile.
* Ticket 13370: Added configurable placeholder text to text box, text area and date picker widgets in mobile forms.
* Ticket 12778: Allow searching on associated attributes in the mobile list view widget.
* Ticket 13500: Added property 'Editable' to mobile data view.

#### Modeler usability

* Ticket 13312: Changed default setting for 'Abort on validation errors' to 'Yes'.
* Ticket 11868: Allow importing project packages (.mpk files) using File > Open Project.
* Ticket 13217: You can now create labels anywhere in forms by typing in an empty drop zone.
* Ticket 13217: Extended the 'Find microflow actions' functionality with the new create/change/commit action options.
* Ticket 13217: Introduced new icon set in 'Administration' module when creating a new project. The icons are transparent so that they can be used on buttons without showing a white border.
* Ticket 12571: Include version number in Modeler executable name in 'Open with' dialogs and menus in Windows.
* Ticket 12674: When a microflow action triggers events, the Modeler now shows whether the entity actually has events that will be triggered. Also, the context-menu of such an activity allows you to quickly jump to triggered events.
* Ticket 12669: Improved the behavior of the Mobile Navigation editor. Double clicking a row with no target now opens the target selector.
* Ticket 13152: Improved usability of the Import web service / XML file feature by adding a Check All button in the XML schema element selection dialog.
* Ticket 13113: Dramatically improved performance of the new form editor when editing complex forms that have lots of tables.
* Split form access in module security dialog into web forms and mobile forms.

#### Other

* Ticket 13218: Extended runtime statistics reporting.
* Ticket 8758: Introduced option to raise an error when a 'before' event handler returns false.
* Ticket 12358: Improved support for logging long-running queries.
* Ticket 12357: Print useable info in log on query timeout occurrance.
* Tickets 12988, 11205: Enabling/disabling keep-alives is now configurable in the server configuration.
* Ticket 12323: Introduced "EnableSessionFingerprinting" configuration option, which can be set to 'false' in order to prevent sudden session logouts when third-party browser software changes request headers.
* Performance improvements in the Mendix runtime.
* When creating an object using the grid new button for a grid with an 'Association' data source, the association is automatically set to the containing data view object.

### Fixes

* Ticket 13217: Fixed retrieve action image for reversed associations in microflow debugger.
* Ticket 13217: Fixed an issue with configuring the search attributes for the list view.
* Ticket 13217: Fixed an issue when using "Extract sub-microflow" on start or end activities inside a loop. This prevented start and end events from being created.
* Ticket 12243: Fixed cancel behavior when editing access rules from the module security dialog.
* Ticket 11112: Do not add backtracking constraints for object removed after rollback.
* Ticket 12764: English texts are used for the licensing screens if your default language is not English or Dutch.
* Ticket 9513: When retrieve activities are optimized away and they had breakpoints, move them to the optimized aggregate action.
* Ticket 11879: Removed delay and fade effect on column headers when scrolling.
* Ticket 13287: Added checks when importing erroneous WSDL files to prevent further errors from occurring in the Modeler.
* Ticket 13070: Fixed incorrect ignore of 'not' expression in some XPath queries.
* Ticket 10246: Paging to the last page in a Data Grid where the set size is an exact multiple of the page size.
* Ticket 12752: Fix selection bookkeeping for template grid.
* Ticket 10216: Added Modeler check for unsupported reference selector setting that was inadvertently allowed in version 3.
* Ticket 12265: Render issue.
* Ticket 12894: Fixed bug which resulted in not setting cookies correctly at mobile login.
* Ticket 12637: Clear old selection when applying datagrid context.
* Ticket 12838: Improved 'Emulate cloud security' functionality so that the Excel Importer App Store module works when this option is enabled.
* Tickets 12769, 13277: Fixed bug resulting in missing data for dynamic labels/images in document exports.
* Ticket 10452: Fixed generation of virtual attribute values for custom retrieval schemas.
* Ticket 12342: Preserve date part when changing time and vice versa.
* Ticket 13049: Fixed an issue where the Modeler installer would open after every reboot.
* Ticket 13058: Fixed an issue where an XML schema could not be read when using duplicate attribute names for elements with the same parent.
* Ticket 13185: Javadoc documentation added for classes, necessary for Java data sets (reporting).
* Ticket 11444: Improved message and location for errors for completely merged rows and columns in document templates.
* Ticket 11099: Fixed exception during excel/csv export when exporting an outdated enum value.
* Tickets 10780, 10356: Opening two separate forms from a microflow now correctly passes each object to their respective form.
* Ticket 12734: Make sure lists returned from list operations are mutable.
* Ticket 12777: Replace CurrentObject token in List View constraint.
* Ticket 8833: Fixed generation of virtual attribute values for custom schemas.
* Ticket 11345: Remove title from cells in empty rows in Data Grid.
* Ticket 12506: Fix select all behaviour in datagrid and template grid.
* Ticket 12911: Restored default value editing behavior for grid search fields.
* Ticket 13153: Bug in XML import
* Ticket 8501: Update form view from microflow when its object has changed.
* Ticket 8295: Forbid setting autonumber values manually
* Ticket 12029: Save changes before executing window close action
* Ticket 12316: When showing normal popup and blocking message in a microflow, focus is not set on blocking message.
* Ticket 12876: Fixed a error that occurred in document templates when moving an Attribute widget.
* Ticket 12977: Improved usability of the Microflow Button.
* Ticket 13182: Added consistency check that prevents users from letting a grid column of a grid with an association source, show an attribute that is not contained in the grid's entity.
* Ticket 12999: Fixed an issue that occurred when using a tooltip form that contained a data grid inside a data view.
* Ticket 8335: Trigger close action on Data View, even if control bar is hidden.
* Ticket 10192: Do not remove occurrences of '' from string attributes
* Ticket 11119: Reset file uploader when new context is applied
* Ticket 13003: Always uncheck checkbox when no object is selected
* Ticket 11454: Fix scrollbar behavior for data grids nested in tables
* Ticket 13124: Fixed an issue with deleting self-references.
* Ticket 11668: Allow optional parameters to be null when calling a web service. The elements to which those parameters refer are not included in the web service request.
* Ticket 12986: Increased timeout values in the Modeler for uploading a deployment package to the Mendix Cloud.
* Tickets 13115, 13278: Fixed an issue where the contents of XML tags represented by object mapping elements would not be imported.
* Tickets 12632, 13005, 13196, 12949: Closing a form and showing another in the same microflow now correctly closes forms in content.
* Tickets 12798, 13079, 13111, 13236: Fixed nullpointer exception when commit action didn't return any objects to actually commit
* Ticket 13054: Typing while a non-empty table cell is selected will now edit the render mode property, as it did in Mendix 3.
* Ticket 12981: Fixed Data Grid in Tooltip
* Ticket 8373: Use form title when opening a form in report or conditional loader.
* Ticket 12696: Improved accuracy of unused variable warning.
* Ticket 13311: Log custom validation feedback for scheduled events and published web services.
* Ticket 11111: FileDocument is committed on validation, without commit!
* Ticket 10658: Fix caching for objects retrieved by the ImageUploader widget
* Ticket 12052: Escape 0x2028 and 0x2029 Unicode characters for JSON generation, as ECMAScript does not allow them, leading to parse errors in the browser when they occur in JSON.
* Ticket 12862: Fixed issues with data view list refresh and rendering.
* Ticket 9587: Fix clearing of constrained reference selectors
* Ticket 12965: On signout cleanup all references to the session signing out to prevent retaining cache objects for that session.
* Ticket 12770: Fixed an error in document template generation.
* Ticket 13372: Fixed bug that could lead to 100% cpu usage in the runtime.
* Fixed memory footprint of Modeler when working with large projects, especially during deployment.
* Fixed several exceptions that were reported through the exception feedback mechanism (thank you!).
