---
title: "4.5"
parent: "4"
---

## 4.5.2

### Known Issue {#known-issue-4-5-2}

There is a known issue since version 4.5.1 of the Mendix Business Modeler. When retrieving one attribute value or an aggregated attribute value via an XPath query or an aggregate list activity in a microflow, using the same reference in more than one constraint, the id column will be retrieved instead of the specified attribute. This leads to incorrect results. This issue has been solved in 4.7.1.

### Fixes

* Ticket 18687: Fixed Firefox-specific issue that caused the Mendix web client to stop working.
* Tickets 18723, 18774: Having a specialization of System.FileDocument with an attribute called 'FileName' was problematic, because of a hidden attribute with the same name used internally by the runtime.

## 4.5.1

### Known Issue 1 {#known-issue-4-5-1-1}

There is a known issue with versions 4.5.0 and 4.5.1 of the Mendix Business Modeler. The issue occurs if you have an entity that is a specialization of System.FileDocument and that has an attribute called ‘FileName’. In that case, errors can occur at run-time when uploading and downloading such file documents and manipulating the ‘FileName’ attribute.

The work-around is to rename the attribute to something else. Note that the ‘Name’ attribute of System.FileDocument already contains the file name and there is no need to store it in another attribute. The issue has been fixed in Mendix 4.5.2.

### Known Issue 2 {#known-issue-4-5-1-2}

There is another known issue since version 4.5.1 of the Mendix Business Modeler. When retrieving one attribute value or an aggregated attribute value via an XPath query or an aggregate list activity in a microflow, using the same reference in more than one constraint, the id column will be retrieved instead of the specified attribute. This leads to incorrect results. This issue has been solved in Mendix 4.7.1.

### Fixes

* Ticket 17914: Optimize platform search queries when searching for multiple attributes over a single association.

## 4.5.0

### Known Issue

There is a known issue with versions 4.5.0 and 4.5.1 of the Mendix Business Modeler. The issue occurs if you have an entity that is a specialization of System.FileDocument and that has an attribute called ‘FileName’. In that case, errors can occur at run-time when uploading and downloading such file documents and manipulating the ‘FileName’ attribute.

The work-around is to rename the attribute to something else. Note that the ‘Name’ attribute of System.FileDocument already contains the file name and there is no need to store it in another attribute. The issue will be fixed in version 4.5.2.

### Improvements

* Ticket 17046: Publish web services with advanced header authentication mechanisms.
* Publish web services without authentication (when custom authentication implementation is required).
* Ticket 17632: Included support for calling One-Way operation web services.

### Fixes

* Ticket 17956: Added documentation about Mendix 3 to 4 upgrade with regard to uploaded files.
* Ticket 18224: Fixed issue in document generator when dynamic label property 'enumeration format' was set to 'Image' and some enumeration values had empty images.
* Ticket 18211: Made importing XML document more secure.
* Ticket 17857: Fixed issue which occurred when executing a UNION OQL query with aggregates enabled.
* Ticket 17418: Fixed an issue where the home form was opened instead of the given form in an open form instruction preceded by a close form instruction.
* Ticket 17660: Allow self read access to the IsAnonymous attribute in the System.User entity for the client API.
* Ticket 17003: Improve validation of numerical grid search fields.
* Tickets 17860, 17910: Disable export to excel button when the data grid has no context.
* Tickets 15961, 17556: Made number/currency input more robust against focus changes.
* Ticket 17791: Fixed incorrect transaction behavior in error handling flow.
* Ticket 17682: In Reference Set Selectors, apply backtracking constraints only to the selection grid and not the grid showing the references.
* Ticket 17493: Solved an issue where XSD Choice Elements where not correctly converted within an XML to Domain mapping.
* Fixed behavior that the Runtime does not wait to shut down if there are actions running, which should be done if there is a valid license.
* Fixed weird blurry font effect with splash screen and about window (on some screens).
* Fixed a problem running Mendix in Eclipse with Java version 6u45 or 7u21 and higher.
