---
title: "4.6"
parent: "4"
---

## 4.6.1

### Known Issue

There is a known issue since version 4.5.1 of the Mendix Business Modeler. When retrieving one attribute value or an aggregated attribute value via an XPath query or an aggregate list activity in a microflow, using the same reference in more than one constraint, the id column will be retrieved instead of the specified attribute. This leads to incorrect results. This issue has been solved in 4.7.1.

### Fixes

* Ticket 19788: Fixed: User sessions are immediately destroyed when clicking logout button
* Additional fix for ticket 17791 (which was released in 4.5.0): Ensure transactions in sub-microflows are always ended, when custom error handling with rollback is used.
* When a session cannot be destoyed, because of still running actions for this session, a warning is shown in the log containing user and session information.

## 4.6.0

### Known Issue

There is a known issue since version 4.5.1 of the Mendix Business Modeler. When retrieving one attribute value or an aggregated attribute value via an XPath query or an aggregate list activity in a microflow, using the same reference in more than one constraint, the id column will be retrieved instead of the specified attribute. This leads to incorrect results. This issue has been solved in 4.7.1.

### Improvements

* Ticket 17425: Connection bus security debug log messages are now logged with log node ConnectionBus_Security instead of ConnectionBus_Retrieve.
* Ticket 18665: Added 'Refresh' button to Find Results panels in the Modeler.
* When searching for text (Ctrl+F), class and style on other elements than widgets are also considered (table rows, buttons in control bars...).
* The Modeler now requires .NET Framework version 4, which will be installed automatically. This improves memory handling resulting in fewer out-of-memory exceptions.
* Ticket 19330: Show an error message if cookies are disabled.

### Fixes

* Ticket 18432: Synchronized 'Emulate cloud security' settings with actual cloud.
* Ticket 18787: Give initial values for created microflow variables of Float and Currency data type the correct Java type (Double).
* Tickets 16282, 17869: Fixed issue where the month of a selected date was changed before it was saved.
* Ticket 18757: Solved an issue where a self-reference was not shown in the connector.
* Ticket 16590: Resize tab content when shown. Fixes scroll bars in nested containers, e.g. datagrids.
* Ticket 17341: Export to Excel: when an association column value does not exist, because it only exists in a subtype, do not try to obtain its value.
* Ticket 16391: Sequence of colums with attributes of inherited objects is of influence of not showing data while data is present.
* Ticket 18973: Do not destroy session activities on logout if there is still at least one action running
* Ticket 18411: Show validation popup when there are validations on a conditionally hidden tab, to give model developer feedback on this form issue.
* Fixed several exceptions reported throught the Modeler feedback mechanism (thanks!).
