---
title: "5.6"
parent: "5"
---

## 5.6.2

### Fixes

* Reverted changes to runtime session management that caused the garbage collector to not properly clean up Mendix objects.

## 5.6.0

### Improvements

* Ticket 4704, 6901, 11784, 12403, 13013, 14989, 17193, 19771: Allow selecting multiple entities for dragging and deleting in the domain model editor.
    * Drag a selection rectangle to select multiple entities.
    * Use Ctrl+click to add or remove entities from the selection.
    * Use Ctrl+A to select all entities in the domain model.
    * Use Esc to discard the selection.
* Ticket 20724: Speed up Java compilation in many cases.
* Delete confirmation popups have changed slightly:
    * When you are deleting an element that is still used, you can search for usages by clicking the new 'Find usages' button.
    * When deleting a document that is still used, you get one confirmation dialog instead of two.
* The class and style of a page are placed on a more suitable DOM node when displaying it in a popup.

### Fixes

* Ticket 18082, 101442: Respect delete behavior when deleting auto-committed objects.
* Ticket 21647, 21650: Fixed several issues where domain model changes did not immediately show up in other documents.
* Ticket 100708: Non localized dates are now shown correctly in export.
* Ticket 100612, 101047, 101167: Fixed several cases where the Mendix Cloud build would fail even though the Modeler would report no errors.
* Ticket 101558, 101647: Fixed an issue with run optimizations enabled where the runtime would not start.
* Ticket 101590: Fixed displayed shortcut key of 'Edit caption' context-menu item in microflow editor to Shift+F2.
* Fixed some issues that were reported through the Modeler feedback mechanism.
* Ticket 17972: In a data grid or template grid you can now search for a boolean in a referenced entity.
* Fixed focus handling (tab key) in Internet Explorer 11.
* Ticket 16563: Specializations did not display data in generalized grids in document templates.
* Ticket 100655 - Mx531 webservice issue with inheritance, Mx incorrectly adds inheritance in the path as an urn
