---
title: "6.4"
parent: "6"
---

## 6.4.1

**Release date: April 14, 2016**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "6.4.1" %}}

### Improvements

*   Users with the System.Administrator role can now always log in, even when the number of users has exceeded the number specified in the license. Previously only the user with the Administrator name, MxAdmin by default, could log in. This user is not available on sandboxes however. (Ticket 465382)
*   The Administrator (MxAdmin), which is created by default, does not count towards the user limit anymore.

### Fixes

*   Fixed issue when MTOM attachment reference in XML had xmime:contentType attribute even if it was not provided by export mapping (Ticket 374374, 463341, 464052, 465254)
*   Upgraded the PostgreSQL JDBC driver from version 9.4-1206 to 9.4-1208\. This solves the exception 'prepared statement "S_2" does not exist in batch executions' when committing a list of new objects.

### Known issues

*   When creating a new 'Call Web Service' action in a microflow an 'Oops!' window is shown with an error. To create a 'Call Web Service' action in a microflow, first create a 'Consumed Web Service' and then drag the created 'Consumed Web Service' into the microflow.
*   When using File Documents (or specializations) as input parameter to an app service call, an error message is returned. This is fixed in Mendix 6.5
*   Filedocument storage on S3 is not compatible with Java JDK 1.8.0 u60 and up.

## 6.4.0

**Release date: April 5, 2016**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "6.4.0" %}}

### New features

*   Added support for migrating data from one Mendix database to another Mendix database. You can configure an app to copy all data from an existing database into a new database when starting the application. This migration facility enables you to migrate data from one database vendor to another for the same application, for example from SQL Server to PosgreSQL. Configuration details can be found in the migration settings section on the  [Custom Settings](/refguide6/custom-settings) page. Both databases need to have the same database objects, so they need to have the same application, and the same application version deployed on them.
*   Added support for highly available MariaDB Galera Cluster when deploying on CloudFoundry. Galera is the default resilient database used by Pivotal CloudFoundry. You can find more info on CloudFoundry and Galera here: [MySQL service on Pivotal Cloud Foundry now highly available](https://blog.pivotal.io/pivotal-cloud-foundry/products/mysql-service-on-pivotal-cloud-foundry-now-highly-available).
*   New client API function `mx.data.saveDocument` for saving a file document in online or offline mode. This allows custom widget builders to save documents using a supported API.

### Improvements

*   Upgraded MariaDB Connector/J version 1.1.8 to 1.3.6\. This is the JDBC driver for MariaDB and MySQL.
*   Improved performance when storing a big amount of new objects to MySQL/MariaDB databases.
*   The log level has been changed from warning to critical when logging that the Runtime Server is low on resources. This makes sure that alerts are sent to technical contacts when the application is low on resources.
*   Minor improvements on integration microflow actions: Icons have changed, dialogs have changed slightly, and broken help page references have been fixed.
*   XML Import Action now supports importing directly from string variables.
*   Introduced a new integration API call, importStream.
*   Having no sort order is now allowed for data grids, list views and reference set selectors. In this case the objects will be sorted in the order in which they were created. The Modeler will no longer assign the first attribute as sort order.
*   The 'generate document' action has moved from 'Integration' into its own category.
*   The focus in editable list views is now preserved when refreshing the list view. Also the overall rendering performance of list views is improved. (Ticket 406152, 463123)
*   The profile is now preserved when refreshing the page, e.g. refreshing a phone app in a desktop browser now brings you to the phone home page instead of the desktop home page.

### Fixes

*   Fixed low image quality when using a deployment package built by the Mendix Cloud instead of the Modeler. (Ticket 463402, 203744, 205594)
*   The result of applying the 'Contains' operator for the 'List operation' activity in a Microflow is now false when the input object or list is empty. (Ticket 464045)
*   Fixed 'Remove' list operation for the case where the object to be removed was retrieved in a different manner (e.g. 'by association' instead of 'from database') than the object in the list, which lead to in-equal objects. (Ticket 464178)
*   Fixed exception when an export mapping contained an empty root mapping and collected its entities with a microflow. (Ticket 464332)
*   Print local name of XML param instead of literal 'getLocalName' in exception message. (Ticket 464692)
*   Attribute namespaces in XML messages are now correctly applied. (Ticket 447172, 463535)
*   Fixed a case where the creation of an object in an import mapping would be erroneously skipped (Ticket 464603, 465022)
*   Fixed query string encoding for the next page url in OData response. (Ticket 464950)
*   Fixed exposing web services documentation at /ws-doc/. (Ticket 465141, 465069, 465172)
*   Fixed login issue when named user limit was reached, causing all users to be locked out of the application. (Tickets 465195, 463990, 465080, 464988)
*   Default button actions can no longer be triggered (by a click, double click or enter) if conditionally hidden. This applies to both data grids and template grid items. (Ticket 464136)
*   Fixed issue for standalone new buttons on offline pages when this creates an entity which is not displayed in a grid or list view.
*   Fixed device type in client for large session data responses (e.g. when there are a lot of entities in the domain model that are visible to the user). (Ticket 464004, 463916)
*   Fixed clearing validations in the list view when a microflow contains a refresh in client as well as a validation feedback on the refreshed entity. (Ticket 463011)
*   Fixed conditional visibility check in the Modeler that could cause the security check to fail. (Ticket 464763)

### Deprecated features

*   Integration API call importXmlStream is now deprecated. It is suggested to use the new API call, importStream.

### Known issues

*   The PostgreSQL jdbc driver shipped with 6.4.0 contains a bug which may result in queries not being executed correctly. If you are running into this issue, you will see messages similar to this in the logs: org.postgresql.util.PSQLException: ERROR: prepared statement "S_16" does not exist. A patch will be release with Mendix 6.4.1
*   Filedocument storage on S3 is not compatible with Java JDK 1.8.0 u60 and up.
*   If the checkboxes 'Store owner' or 'Store changedBy' are checked for non-persistable entities, unexpected behavior can occur when running the app. For example, runtime errors like "'System.owner' is not a persistable association" or "'System.changedBy' is not a persistable association" may appear. The work-around for this problem is to uncheck these checkboxes. This problem is solved in Mendix 6.10.
