---
title: "6.5"
parent: "6"
---

## 6.5.1

**Release date: May 18, 2016**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "6.5.1" %}}

### Fixes

*   Fixed the issue that the application title configured for the profile was ignored (Ticket 465814).
*   Fixed flickering of page while opening a new page in the hybrid app on iOS (Ticket 465816).
*   Fixed flickering of sidebar while opening a new page in the hybrid app on iOS (Ticket 465816).
*   Fixed an issue where a blank page was shown on iOS after navigating to a page with a text area marked as 'grow automatically'.

### Known issues

*   Mendix Application Quality Monitor (AQM) support of Mendix 6.5.1 will not be available before May 24th. Mendix AQM users are advised to postpone the upgrade till then.

## 6.5.0

**Release date: May 3, 2016**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "6.5.0" %}}

### Improvements

*   Improved the layout of the Call Web Service microflow action dialog.
*   Binary 'attribute' type in entity which is not derived from system FileDocument is now supported in Export Mapping document.
*   Improved changes dock for mapping documents.
*   Due to a number of reasons orphan files can exist in the local filesystem of an app. Orphan files are files in the uploaded file directory which do not have a corresponding database entry. As not all causes of files becoming orphan files can be resolved a scheduled clean-up is introduced in this release to do clean orphan files automatically. In this release this scheduled task is turned off by default, so that this will for now only run for applications which explicitly turn this on. To do this set the custom setting 'com.mendix.core.localfilesystem.cleaning.isEnabled' to 'true'. See for more details [here](/refguide6/custom-settings). When clean-up goes well for all apps which test this procedure, the scheduled task will be turned on by default in a next release. (Tickets 263923, 419169, 463045, 463881, 464147, 464233, 464504)
*   Improved performance of writing the page files by using multiple threads.
*   Updating a running project after changing a snippet or a layout is now significantly faster.

### Fixes

*   Searching for 'Commit Object' microflow actions using the 'Find Advanced' dialog will now also find actions that commit a list of objects. (Ticket 464501)
*   Fixed NullReferenceException during conversion that could occur for MappingDocument with inheritance (Ticket 465244, 465301).
*   Fixed conversion issue for 'call webservice' action where the body parameter is inheritance element.
*   Fixed conversion issue for export mapping document where the request part is inheritance element.
*   Fixed issue when MTOM attachment reference in XML had xmime:contentType attribute even if it was not provided by export mapping (Tickets 374374, 463341, 464052, 465254).
*   Fixed issue when '1' and '0' were not recognized as valid boolean values in string conversion (Ticket 463014).
*   Fixed issue when lowercase 'l' was not recognized as valid postfix for long number type in OData filter (Ticket 464945).
*   Fixed issue when null reference exception was raised in some cases during importing XML schema (Tickets 438026, 463624)
*   Fixed issue where a specific app service was not imported correctly (Ticket 464581)
*   Fixed issue when null reference exception was raised when opening App Service action if App Service was removed or action from App Service was removed (Ticket 419497)
*   Fixed a bug where retrieving a deleted object over association results in a null pointer exception.
*   Fixed a bug where in case of 1-1 and **-** associations, the other end of the association was not configured correctly in the Java object representation (original value and member value state could be incorrect and rollback did not undo the change) in the runtime. This bug did not have an impact on the data stored in the database, so after re-reading the object from the database, it has the correct state.
*   Fixed list views sometimes being editable while nested inside a non-editable data view. (Ticket 465603)
*   Fixed an issue when computed attribute retrieved over association wasn't shown in the data grid column (Ticket 465073).
*   Fixed tab selection being reset after a close page / open page sequence from a microflow. (Ticket 465479)
*   Fixed a memory leak when generating documents. (Ticket 465251)
*   Fixed the occassional flickering of the page when navigating to a page in content.
*   Fixed resizing and moving blocking popups on Internet Explorer 10 and 11\. (Ticket 464222)
*   Stopped synchronizing virtual attributes in offline apps, which was not supported and triggered an error in the runtime log.
*   Add consistency check in the modeler to disallow the use of a New button over an association of which both participating entities are owner. This situation is not supported but the consistency error was never introduced.

### Known issues

*   The application title is ignored, page titles will always show "Mendix 6" followed by the page title. 
*   If the checkboxes 'Store owner' or 'Store changedBy' are checked for non-persistable entities, unexpected behavior can occur when running the app. For example, runtime errors like "'System.owner' is not a persistable association" or "'System.changedBy' is not a persistable association" may appear. The work-around for this problem is to uncheck these checkboxes. This problem is solved in Mendix 6.10.
