---
title: "7.11"
parent: "7"
description: "The release notes for Mendix Desktop Modeler version 7.11 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
---

## 7.11.0

**Release date: January 29th, 2018**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "7.11.0" %}}

### Features

* We added support for the Enter key in the domain model.
* We added authentication options for 'Published REST service'. Now you can chose between 'No authentication' and 'Basic authentication'.
* It is now possible to specify an HttpRequest object to the 'Import with mapping' microflow action.
* Add 'Move' context-menu item to documents and folders in the project explorer. This is an alternative for dragging and dropping and can be more convenient in larger projects.
* Allow multi-select in the find results grid so that you can copy the results to, for example, Excel.

### Fixes

* We added support for images over an association in offline apps. (Ticket 59400)
* We fixed that a reference selector does not attempt to refetch data when the data view object is roll-backed. (Ticket 54699)
* Custom widgets can specify retrieval schema's for XPath queries. We fixed the parsing of references in such schema's. (Ticket 58704)
* We fixed an issue where search field over reference on a DataGrid may not show all available values. (Ticket 58579)
* We fixed an issue where new button for data grid may not work when the association is a many-to-many association. (Ticket 50733)
* When clicking "Cancel" in a data view which has reference selector with a `Constrained by` path, attempting to retrieve the constraints resulted in an error, as the object did not exist anymore. This is fixed now. (Ticket 56545)
* We fixed an issue where Firefox's default action check-box becomes disabled while downloading a file using FileManager widget. (Ticket 58892)
* When a Microflow had multiple actions with `refresh in client` set for the same object, the client would receive multiple refreshes, resulting in redundant redraws for example. We now only refresh objects once. (Ticket 59942)
* When a file was downloaded which had an uncommitted value for the `Name` attribute in `System.FileDocument`, it was not used as the downloaded file name. This is fixed. (Ticket 54697)
* Reference search fields used the same `Constrained by` paths as the grid they were a part of. Sadly, these constraints cannot be reused this way. Now, reference search fields don't take the `Constrained by` paths into account, so this won't result in broken constraints anymore. (Ticket 48374)
* We fixed an issue with JSON structure where clicking the _Format_ button would delete backslashes.
* We fixed an issue where heavy use of the REST consume action would result in an 'Address already in use'-error.
* JSON structures don't support characters ':', '|' and '' in property names, so we added a validation message when you try to use them.
* We added better consistency error message when Entity type is changed in an Import Mapping that is already used in a microflow.
* We improved the user interface of JSON structures so that the screen doesn't flicker on slower machines.
* We fixed an exception which occur while deleting an object. (Ticket 55591, 59370)
* We fixed the problem which prevented the delete of an element of a reference set when it contained only one element. (Ticket 59100)
* We fixed issue preventing users from running/debugging applications from Eclipse (Ticket 59884, 60214, 60300, 60305)
* When dragging a folder to another module would cause a name duplication, the Modeler renames the moving document for you. However, it forgot to store that fact on disk. No more.
* We fixed the problem that texts on pages were sometimes between pointy brackets right after opening a project.
* The calendar popup of a date picker widget was not focusable anymore if the widget was inside a modal popup, preventing a date from being selected. We also corrected the focus behaviour of the multi-select popup when searching on enumeration values in a data grid.
* When tabbing out of an editable data grid, the changed rows were not updated.
* If two parameters in a text template were placed directly next to each other without any characters in between, the second parameter was not recognized correctly.
* When navigating back to a page with a data grid inside a non-default tab, the current value of a search field of the grid was not remembered correctly if the field was an attribute of an associated entity.
* When a text widget contains a caption with a parameter and is initially hidden due to conditional visibility settings it can display the incorrect value when the widgets is made visible. We fixed this for you.
 
