---
title: "7.18"
parent: "7"
description: "The release notes for Mendix Desktop Modeler version 7.18 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
---

## 7.18.0

**Release date: August 28th, 2018**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "7.18.0" %}}

### Productivity Improvements

* We greatly reduced the time it takes Desktop Modeler to update the **Errors** in the project after you make a change. You can expect the check time to be well below a second now, which is a more than 10-fold win for bigger projects.
* We improved the dialog box used to create new branch lines. It no longer fetches all tags before opening and the default has been switched to **Main line**.
* The **Select Ports** dialog box now can be resized horizontally to make long names readable.

#### Show WSDL and XSD

In [consumed web services](/refguide/consumed-web-service) and [XML schemas](/refguide/xml-schemas), we added a **Show** button that shows the content of the WSDL or XML schema file that was imported.

{{% alert type="info" %}}

This is based on an [upvoted idea from Bart Rikers](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas/280) submitted to the [Mendix Ideas Forum](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas). Thanks, Bart!

{{% /alert %}}

#### Choose Not to Commit an Import Mapping

For import mappings in the [import mapping action](/refguide/import-mapping-action#commit), [call REST service action](/refguide/call-rest-action), and [call web service action](/refguide/call-web-service-action), you can now [specify whether you want to commit the changes or not](/refguide/import-mapping-action#commit).

{{% alert type="info" %}}

This is based on a [suggestion by Martin Leppen](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/questions/90534). Cheers, Martin!

{{% /alert %}}

#### Align and Distribute Microflow Activities

You can now select several microflow activities and align them or distribute them evenly.

{{% alert type="info" %}}

This is based on an [upvoted idea from Edwin Huitema](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas/831) submitted to the [Mendix Ideas Forum](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas). Thanks, Edwin!

{{% /alert %}}

#### Java Action Parameter Categories

You can now group the parameters of [Java actions](https://docs.mendix.com/refguide/java-actions) into categories. This gives you a better overview in [Java action calls](/refguide/java-action-call), especially where there are many parameters.

### New Features

* It is now possible to use templates as the label of an input widget. This is based on an [upvoted idea from Fabian Recktenwald](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas/567)  submitted to the [Mendix Ideas Forum](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas). Nice one, Fabian!
* We added support for using a private version control server in combination with a proxy server. If your private version control server is not behind the proxy server, you can make an exception for it in the **Internet Options** control panel (**Connections** > **LAN settings** > **Advanced** > **Exceptions**). (Ticket 57171)
* In [import and export mappings](/refguide/mapping-documents), we added an icon to the structure that you are mapping to, so you can easily see whether it comes from an imported web service, XML schema, JSON structure, or message definition.
* In [published REST services](/refguide/published-rest-service), you can now check a box called **Enable CORS** that will allow other websites to access your REST service.
* We now support the creation of MYSQL databases through the Desktop Modeler. (Ticket 64894)

### Fixes

* We have fixed an issue about the high DPI scaling of the Desktop Modeler Version Selector and removed the old splash screen. (Ticket 50101)
* We fixed the Team Server connection issues that occurred after switching an account or changing your password. (Ticket 67205)
* <a name="67735"></a>We fixed the issues with committing and updating that occurred after a timeout of an hour (the error details mentioned `SvnOperationCanceledException`). (Ticket 67735)
* We fixed the behavior of the **Team Server App** drop-down menu so that it no longer closes when navigating with the keyboard. Also, the list of branches will not contain duplicates anymore.
* We fixed an issue that occurred when opening a project that was created online. When syncing with the Web Modeler, the Desktop Modeler complained about there already being local changes. No more.
* <a name="67014"></a>When a **Create** button was placed on a data grid with a specialization configured as an entity, the generalization would be instantiated instead. The button creates the correct entity again. (Ticket 67014)
* Offline file synchronization can fail because of connection issues, and situations arose where the synchronization was not attempted again, which led to a partial synchronization. We fixed this by implementing a temporary upload, which will be discarded in case of a synchronization failure. (Ticket 64456)
* When the default action on a grid on a select page was to select the item, this was not communicated properly to the corresponding reference selector. Instead, the reference was cleared. This and a similar issue with the (input) reference set selector were fixed. (Ticket 65193)
* We fixed the issue causing the built-in admin user to retain old roles when a new role was selected in the **Security** configuration of the app project. (Ticket 65664)
* We fixed a problem where using Microsoft Azure file storage caused the configured certificates not to be used anymore in Mendix.
* We updated our version of the Microsoft Azure Storage Library from 7.0.0 to 8.0.0.
* We improved error handling in the interrupt-request admin action. A failure when logging a log message will still attempt interruption of the thread.
* We upgraded the *xerces.xercesImpl.jar* library to version 2.12.
* We fine-tuned the colors of microflow activities to give them more contrast. (Ticket 65699)
* We fixed an issue where the default value was inserted every time for an AutoNumber attribute having no access rights. (Ticket 63071)
* <a name="67019"></a>It is now possible to add variables to `createXPathQuery` in the Core Java API. (Ticket 67019)
* We fixed an issue where sorting on the search field in a data grid resulted in a database exception. (Ticket 64852)
* We fixed a bug in the behavior of `COUNT` on an attribute aggregate query. Previously, when a count on an attribute was defined along with other aggregate functions, count was always rendered as `COUNT(*)`. As of this release, attribute-specific aggregate functions are always rendered in terms of an associated attribute. As this may change the result of the `COUNT` aggregate function in your application, a temporary custom property has been introduced called `DataStorage.CountOnAttribute`. Setting this property to **False** will allow you to fall back to the old `COUNT` behavior. We plan to remove the `DataStorage.CountOnAttribute` custom property in Mendix version 8.
* We upgraded the HSQLDB (built-in database) driver version from 2.3.4 to 2.4.1.

### Known Issues

* There is a known issue with consistency error checking. In some cases, consistency errors remain shown in the **Errors** pane, even though they have been fixed. (Ticket 68234)
  * Workaround for Desktop Modeler users: Make a small change in the app model to trigger consistency checking again.
* Unpacking and opening project packages (*.mpk* files) does not work when double-clicking in Windows Explorer. (Ticket 68263)

  * Workaround: Open the Desktop Modeler and import the project package via **File** > **Import Project Package**.
