---
title: "7.20"
parent: "7"
description: "The release notes for Mendix Desktop Modeler version 7.20 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
---

## 7.20.0

**Release date: November 6th, 2018**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "7.20.0" %}}

### Productivity Improvements

* It is now possible to copy-paste a widget directly without selecting a drop-zone. When pasting a widget on top of an existing widget, it will be inserted below the existing widget (if possible).
* It is now possible to set the variable produced by an activity as the return value of a microflow via the context menu.

### New Features

* In [export mapping actions](/refguide/export-mapping-action) and [import mapping actions](/refguide/import-mapping-action) based on a [consumed web service](/refguide/consumed-web-service), validation is no longer supported. We have added a conversion that disables validation if you had it enabled.
* Selectors in the Desktop Modeler no longer display a **Show** button when nothing has been selected.
* In a [call web service action](/refguide/call-web-service-action), you can now always choose to **Validate against WSDL** (where previously you could only do that with the old [deprecated] implementation).

### Fixes

*  We fixed an issue in [XML schemas](/refguide/xml-schemas) where namespace prefixes could not be resolved inside WSDLs.
  {{% alert type="info" %}}This is based on a [question from Jan de Lange](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/questions/91462) asked on the [Mendix Forum](https://forum.mendixcloud.com). Thanks for bringing this to our attention, Jan!
  {{% /alert %}}
*  A reference selector rendered as a drop-down menu no longer retrieves all objects when it is read-only. (Tickets 67931, 68707)
*  When a reference selector has been configured as **Select using** > **Page** but without an actual page selected, it was incorrectly rendered as a drop-down menu. We fixed that for you. (Ticket 68707)
*  The **Show control bar** property has been renamed to **Show control bar buttons** and now only hides the control bar buttons, not the whole control bar.
*  Rollback actions caused objects to be sent to the client, even when **Refresh in client** was set to **No**. This is not needed, because it caused the unnecessary recomputation of calculated attributes, so we no longer enable that. (Ticket 69383)
*  A change action caused objects to always be sent to the client, although this was often unnecessary. That caused unexpected recomputations of calculated attributes and value updates in the widget, so we no longer enable that.
*  Regarding data retrieval, the text **Limit** has been renamed to **Amount**, as it more clearly describes how much data will be fetched.
*  We fixed an issue where data grids and reference set selectors over an association or microflow source were reloaded when the user navigated through the pages of the widget, because this degraded the overall performance of pagination. (Ticket 66633)
*  We fixed an issue where a project could not be deployed when it contained a snippet without an entity configured but with a **Save** button on it.
*  We fixed an issue where the values of calculated attributes were not refreshed in the client when a change action without actual changes was used. (Ticket 69201)
*  When hybrid online apps were minimized long enough to cause a session timeout on the server, the autologin caused a hashing error because the state was not cleared. This has been fixed by redirecting to the home page when resurrecting the session using autologin. (Tickets 68498, 68655, 68940)
*  We fixed an issue where an object was not updated inside a data view when that object had not been communicated to the client earlier (for example, during an object-update feedback triggered by a Java action). (Ticket 65753)
*  We fixed an issue where asynchronous microflows that were creating a lot of objects did not complete. (Ticket 58908)
*  We fixed [published web services](/refguide/published-web-services) so that exposed names are now refreshed with domain model changes.
*  We fixed an issue in [published OData services](/refguide/published-odata-services) where special characters were not interpreted correctly.
*  We fixed an issue where deleting a file document on IBM storage when that service was down did not report that as an error.
*  We fixed an issue in consumed [REST services](/refguide/consumed-rest-services) and [web services](/refguide/consumed-web-services) where using an empty proxy password did not send the proxy username.
*  We upgraded several dependencies (*.jar* files) in the Runtime: 
	* *scala-parser-combinators* to version 1.1.1
	* *akka-http* and *akka-http-spray-json* to version 10.1.5
	* *akka-actor* and *akka-stream* to version 2.5.17
*  We fixed an issue where exposing an exposed name when that name was the same as an unexposed attribute threw a validation error.
*  You can now specify web service names and REST host names for which you do not want client certificates using the `ClientCertificateUsages` custom setting in the Mendix Cloud. (Ticket 66497)

### Known Issues

* There is an issue when a microflow, called from a pop-up window, rolls back the object which is the context of the page and has not been committed yet and then closes the page. This can result in a JavaScript error and the page becoming unresponsive. (Ticket 70111)
	* Workaround: In some cases, this can be avoided by using a button with the **Cancel changes** action instead.
* In some cases, while doing an error check, the progress bar starts moving and does not stop. This is a user interface problem, as the error check itself finishes properly. (Ticket 69295)
