---
title: "9.7 & Above"
url: /releasenotes/studio/9.7-and-above/
category: "Studio"
weight: 10
description: "New features, bug fixes, and known issues in Mendix Studio correlated to Mendix Studio Pro versions 9.0 and above."
#If moving or renaming this doc file, implement a temporary redirect and let the respective team know they should update the URL in the product. See Mapping to Products for more details.
#When updating, remember to update the Latest Mendix Releases file.
---

These are the Mendix Studio release notes for apps built with Studio Pro version 9.7 and above. The release notes include all minor versions, patches, and known issues.

{{% alert color="info" %}}
For Studio release notes correlated with the Studio Pro version 9.0–9.6, see [9.0–9.6](/releasenotes/studio/9.0-9.6/).
{{% /alert %}}

For more information on the correlation between Mendix Studio and Desktop Modeler/Mendix Studio Pro versions, see [Studio Ranges & Mendix Versions](/studio8/general-versions/).

For updates on the operational status of Studio as well as deployment features and other Mendix services, see [Mendix Status](https://status.mendix.com/).

## 2022

### June 28th, 2022

#### New Features

* We added support for [Studio Pro 9.15.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.15/#9150).
* We added new expressions – Subtract Date Functions Calls that allow you subtract a time period from a date and time and return the modified value. For example, to check if the due date was expired more than a week ago you can use the following expression: `$workflowContext/DueDate < subtractDays([%CurrentDateTime%], 7)`.
* We added `addQuarters` and `addQuartersUTC` functions to Add Date Function Calls.

### June 24th, 2022

#### Improvements

* You can now use external entities from the Data Hub for the Workflow Context. 

### June 15th, 2022

#### New Features

* We added support for [Studio Pro 9.14.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.14/#9140).
* We added support for Workflow Commons 2.1.2 (a workflow-specific module).  

#### Improvements

* We improved error messages for errors CE0115 and CE0127 and made messages more user-friendly.
* We made the behavior for workflow and microflow custom actions consistent: custom action categories are displayed open in the **Toolbox** now. 
* We made the description of the Administration module in the **Mendix Version & Add-Ons** screen more user-friendly. 

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue when long names of elements in the **Toolbox** were not wrapped to several lines. 

### June 3rd, 2022

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where custom widgets were not rendered correctly when you dragged and dropped them on a page. 
* We fixed an issue where country flag icons were not shown when you had several languages in your app.

### May 19th, 2022

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where duplicating a workflow resulted in user task and default workflow pages from the original workflow being mapped to the duplicated workflow and no consistency error shown.
* We fixed the drag-and-drop issue in the workflow editor.
* We fixed an issue of not seeing custom widgets in the **Toolbox** on pages but seeing a message about the Marketplace being down.

### May 9th, 2022

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue with a horizontal scrollbar that appeared when you selected attributes in the Approval Request workflow wizard. For more information on the wizard, see [How to Configure a Workflow Using the Wizard in Studio](/studio-how-to/workflow-how-to-configure-using-wizard/) in *Studio 9 How-tos*.
* We fixed an issue where you could fill in invalid characters using the Approval Request workflow wizard. Now you can only fill in valid characters.
* We fixed an issue where the **Bring me back** button did not work when using the Approval Request workflow wizard.
* We fixed an issue where workflow-related entities were not selectable. 
* We fixed an issue where the custom icons were not rendered properly in the workflow editor and the **Toolbox**. 
* We fixed an issue where enumeration captions were not filled in when you used the **App from a spreadsheet**. 
* We fixed an issue where long external entities names broke the **Select** dialog. 

### April 29th, 2022

#### New Features

* We added support for [Studio Pro 9.13.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.13/#9130).

#### Improvements

* We extended the expression language with four new tokens to make it very easy to evaluate against yesterday or tomorrow.
* We changed the **Return Value** category of the **Call Microflow** activity in microflows and workflows to **Output** for more consistency. 
* We added new video tutorials on how to build an app to the **Help & Learning** to enable you to learn how to use Studio faster. 
* With workflows being re-enabled and made generally available in Studio for apps in Mendix version 9.12.1 or above, we updated the upgrading     process for existing apps: 
  * If your app has Mendix version 9.6 or above and does **not** yet have workflows, you can upgrade automatically in Studio to Mendix 9.12.1 or above and start using workflows.
  * If your app has Mendix version 9.5.1 or above and has workflows (which were in Beta) enabled, your app can only be upgraded manually by a team member using Studio Pro. For information on how to upgrade the app, see [Migrate Workflow Apps](https://docs.mendix.com/refguide/workflow-beta-migration/) in *Studio Pro Guide*. 

### April 14th, 2022

#### New Features

* Workflows are now fully available in Studio: workflow functionality is not in Beta anymore, so you can use your apps with workflows in production now. For more information on workflows and how to create them, see [Workflows](/studio/workflows/). 
* We added the Approval Flow wizard when you create a workflow. If your use case falls under approval process, for example, approving vacation days for your team, you can use the wizard to create the app automatically: you define data type, and the wizard sets up the rest, including a workflow, relevant pages, and navigation. For more information, see [How to Configure a Workflow Using the Wizard in Studio](/studio-how-to/workflow-how-to-configure-using-wizard/) in *Studio 9 How-tos*. 

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where security was not configured correctly in app templates that had Mendix SSO installed. As a result, users were not redirected to the correct login page when they published their apps.


### March 29th, 2022

#### New Features

* We added support for [Studio Pro 9.12.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.12/#9120).
* You can now disable an activity in a microflow. This is useful when you are in the process of building and testing the microflow and would like to temporarily exclude an activity from the flow. Open the **Properties** tab of the activity and click the **More** icon > **Disable** at the bottom of the tab. When you need to re-enable the activity back, you can always do so in its properties. For more information, see the [Disabling an Activity](/studio/microflows/#disable) section in *Microflows*. 

### March 10th, 2022

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where the dialog box for selecting attributes did not show attributes of associated entities.
* We fixed an issue where the entire breadcrumb in the page editor was selected when clicking on the layout option in the breadcrumb. 
* We fixed an issue where native widget packages were shown in the **Widget Overview** screen. 

### March 7th, 2022

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where newly created demo users required credentials to log into the **Preview** mode. 

### January 24th, 2022

#### New Features

* We added support for [Studio Pro 9.11.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.11/#9110).

### January 25th, 2022

#### New Features

* We added support for [Studio Pro 9.10.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.10/#9100).

### January 17th, 2022

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where Studio was reloading when a new Mendix Studio version was released.

### January 3rd, 2022 

#### New Features

* We introduced the **Mendix Version & Add-Ons** setting screen where you can upgrade your app to a new version and update add-on modules to a newer version. This gives you a clear overview and helps keep your app up-to-date with the latest Mendix features, security, and bug fixes. For more information, see [Mendix Version & Add-Ons](/studio/settings-version-and-add-ons/). 

## 2021

### December 23rd, 2021

#### Fixes 

* We fixed an issue where you could upload an image with a name that differed only by upper or lower case to an existing one and it would cause a consistency error.

### December 17th, 2021

#### New Features

* We added support for [Studio Pro 9.9.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.9/#990).

### November 30th, 2021

#### New Features

* We added support for [Studio Pro 9.8.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.8/#980).

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where the **Edit in Studio Pro** button was not working in some browsers.

### November 22nd, 2021

#### New Features

* In microflows, we introduced a new activity **Call Microflow**. It allows you to call a microflow from another microflow and reuse logic and return values of the called microflow.  

### October 28th, 2021

#### Improvements

* We improved error messages that might appear on the [Buzz](/studio/collaboration-buzz/) tab by making them clearer.
* We added basic support for the new **Send External Object** activity that can be added in Studio Pro. The activity and its properties can be viewed in Studio. 

### October 26th, 2021

#### New Features

* We added support for [Studio Pro 9.7.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.7/#970).

