---
title: "2.0"
parent: "2"
---

## 2.0

This major release of APM deals with cloud, end-user measurements, and simplicity themes.

### Cloud Multi-Tenant

APM 2.0 is a multi-tenant cloud-based app that is integrated with the Mendix Developer Portal for your project and SSO. 

To use APM, you only need to install the **APMAgent2** module.

These are the main advantages of this:

* The agent does not have a UI in your app and does not need permissions and navigation
* The agent does not use your database to store traces
* The agent has even less of an impact on your app than it already had
* New features in the cloud manager app become quickly available and do not need a deployment of your app

### Simplified UI and functionality

APM 2.0 has a new UI that is in line with Mendex Sprintr. The whole APM Manager App has been revised to simplify and ease the use.

* A tour guide has been added to help you use APM to perform specific jobs.
* Many settings that were never changed have got a proper default. 
* Some technical settings have been combined into an end-user understandable setting like memory-usage high, medium or low.
* The former log tool and trap tool are combined into the logs.
* The recorder stores immediately, so recording is just a start/stop function and no longer needs processing.

The statistics now store action statistics as well. This will give detailed insights in microflows and actions without recording at all. So, in most cases, you just have to look at the statistics and start fixing!

Because the agent no longer needs security and navigation, the installation has been simplified as well.

You now have one place—the **APM 2.0 Manager** app—for managing the performance of all your apps.

### End-User Measurements

We added a browser agent that measures performance from the browser side. This agent collects statistics and can record individual traces. 

Measuring real end-user experiences allows you to grasp the actual end-user experience and not miss out on performance issues caused by a network, a slow browser, or apps that send too much data or are too chatty.

The browser agent works in desktop browsers, mobile device browsers, and Mendix-native PhoneGap apps.

The browser agent statistics now even show click-paths. This is an inital version of a feature that shows huge potential in seeing how your app is really used!

### Upgrade Notes

APM 2.0 can run side-by-side with APM 1. You can uninstall APM 1 in a later release if you want.

There is no data migration from APM 1 to APM 2.

Compared to APM 1, the following main features have been removed:

* APM 2 has no measurements tool (but it does measure CPU and memory)
* APM 2 has no JVM browser and does not give you the option to measure all JMX-exposed data (this feature had the most value in on-premises situations and was not used by a lot at customers; in addition, this feature is handled by any generic APM solution)
* APM 2 has no query tool to execute manual queries
* APM 2 has no SQL statements in performance traces and thus no explain-plan function
* APM 2 does not re-route Java console and Java until logging to the Mendix log

Due to these simplifications, a lot of minor features may have been simplified, combined, or totally removed.
