---
title: "Database Source"
parent: "data-sources"
---
The data source properties determine which objects will be shown in the data grid. The list of objects in the data grid is constrained by the following mechanisms:

1.  Access rules on entities limit which objects you see. You only see objects you are allowed to see.
2.  For nested data grids, if an entity path is used, only the objects reachable by following the path from the containing object are shown.
3.  With the XPath constraint property you can manually limit the objects in the data grid.
4.  If the context is applied (property 'Apply Context'), the [context mechanism](context-mechanism) limits the object based on references they have to objects in the context.

{{% alert type="success" %}}

Use access rules whenever possible to limit data in data grids. This way you know that the objects will always be constrained by these rules (as opposed to an XPath constraint on a single data grid). The access rules will also be applied when executing microflows which saves you from repeating XPath constraints there, too.

{{% /alert %}}

## Components

### Search bar

See [Search Bar](search-bar).

### Sort bar

See [Sort Bar](sort-bar).

## Properties

### Entity (Path)

The entity (path) property specifies of which entity instances will be shown in the data grid. A top-level data grid is always connected to an entity. A nested data grid can either be connected to an entity or to an entity path starting in the entity of the containing data view. The entity path follows one association of type reference starting at the side where the '0' is.

{{% alert type="info" %}}

Let us say the domain model contains entities Order and OrderLine with a reference from OrderLine to Order, i.e. the 1 is at the side of the OrderLine and the 0 is at the side of the Order. You can then create a data view on Order and inside it a data grid on OrderLine that is connected to the entity path OrderLine_Order/OrderLine. This will ensure that the data grid will only show order lines of the order in the data view.

{{% /alert %}}

### Show search bar

With this property you can influence the visibility of the search bar.

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Never | No search bar and no search button is shown. |
| With button (initially open) | The user can open and close the search bar using the Search button and the search bar is initially open. |
| With button (initially closed) | The user can open and close the search bar using the Search button and the search bar is initilly closed. |
| Always | The search bar is always open and there is no Search button. |

_Default value:_ With button (initially closed)

### Wait for search

This setting defines whether the contents of the grid are immediately visible or that first a search has to be performed. This is useful for grids with very large amounts of objects that do not need to be browsed all at the same time.

_Default value:_ false

### XPath constraint

With the XPath constraint, you can add a manual constraint to your data grid. This XPath constraint will be added to the constraints that are generated by the context mechanism and the (optional) path. Note: preferably use access rules to limit the objects in the data grid. See the introduction of data source properties above.

### Apply context

The property 'Apply context' indicates whether the context mechanism will be used to constrain the list of objects in the grid. See [Context Mechanism](context-mechanism) for more information.

{{% alert type="success" %}}

Using an entity path also constrains the list of objects in the grid and this is more explicit and easier to understand than using the context mechanism. Make sure that in that case 'Apply context' is set to false.

{{% /alert %}}

_Default value_: False

### Remove from context

Using this property you can remove objects from the context. If you remove objects of a certain entity from the context they will not be used to constrain the list of objects and neither to automatically set references of objects created by using a standard New button.

See [Context Mechanism](context-mechanism).
