---
title: "Mendix Hosting Enviroment project structure and commands"
category: "On-premises Deployment"
---
## Description

This section describes the commands and the project structure you can use while working on the Mendix 'Custom Cloud' Hosting Environment.

## Instructions

### Application folder

The application folder is located at `/srv/mxinstances/` followed by the user name you logged in with. For this example the username 'mendix' will be used. This will mean that the application folder is `/srv/mxinstances/mendix`. This folder looks as follows:

```
.
├── data
│   ├── database
│   ├── files
│   ├── model-upload
│   └── tmp
├── model
└── web

```

The `model` and `web` folders will contain your application model and static content like styling and forms. These two locations are automatically managed, you never need to alter anything directly here.

The `data` folder contains all kind of data that is private to this application environment only.

*   in `model-upload`, you can upload a 'deployment-archive' file that is generated by the Mendix Modeler
*   `database` is used for reading and writing database dump files (in postgresql .backup format) and logs of database structure validation commands that are executed
*   `files` will contain uploaded files of the application. You should never need to take any manual action regarding this location
*   `tmp` can be used as location for temporary disposable files

### Helper tools for starting and stopping the application process

To unpack a deployment archive, start, stop and manage the application, a little tool called `m2ee` is provided on the server system. You can start this utility by simply typing `m2ee` at the command line:

```
example@example.mendix.net:~ 1-$ m2ee
WARNING: /srv/mendix/example/model/model.mdp is not a file!
INFO: Application Name: Some Example Application
INFO: The application process is not running.
m2ee(example):

```

Using `help` or `?` you can show available commands:

```
m2ee(example): ?
Welcome to m2ee, the Mendix Runtime helper tools.

Available commands:
 unpack - unpack an uploaded Mendix Deployment Archive from data/model-upload
 start - try starting the application using the unpacked deployment files
 stop - stop the application
 restart - restart the application
 status - display Mendix Runtime status (is the application running?)
 check_health - manually execute health check
 create_admin_user - create first user when starting with an empty database
 update_admin_user - reset the password of an application user
 who, w - show currently logged in users
 log - follow live logging from the application
 loglevel - view and configure loglevels
 profiler - start the profiler (experimental)
 about - show Mendix Runtime version information
 exit, quit, <ctrl>-d - exit m2ee

When using PostgreSQL, you can also use:
 psql - start the postgresql shell
 dumpdb - create a database dump into the data/database folder
 emptydb - drop all tables and sequences from the database
 restoredb - restore a database dump from the data/database folder

[...]

Hint: use tab auto completion for commands!

```

### Application configuration

All configuration that is specific to the application environment you're logged in to is contained in a configuration file, that is named `m2ee.yaml`, located in the `.m2ee` folder in the home directory of the server account. When your user account is `example`, this means the location of the file on the server file system is probably `/home/example/.m2ee/m2ee.yaml`. This file is a text file in YAML format, and has a fair amount of inline documentation.

The file can be edited using a text editor like `vim` or `nano`, the latter being more friendly for new users. To e.g. edit the file using nano, first exit the m2ee program if it's running, and type `nano ~/.m2ee/m2ee.yaml`. After editing and saving the file, start `m2ee` again, which will use the altered configuration.

Don't hesitate to ask for help on the Mendix Forum at [https://forum.mendix.com/](https://forum.mendix.com/) or file a support ticket for your application environment at [https://support.mendix.com/](https://support.mendix.com/) if you have trouble editing this file or understanding details of the configuration.


