---
title: "7.23"
parent: "7"
description: "The release notes for Mendix Desktop Modeler version 7.23 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
---

## 7.23.13 {#72313}

**Release date: **

{{% modelerdownloadlink "7.23.13" %}}

### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where microflows that changed a large amount of objects and returned a Boolean value, resulted in a client-side exception.

### Deprecations

* Starting with Mendix 7.23.15, we will drop support for the following database versions that are no longer supported by vendors:
	* Oracle 11, 12.1
 	* MySQL 5.5, 5.6
 	* MariaDB 5.5, 10.0
 	* PostgreSQL 9.2, 9.3, 9.4
 	* SQL Server 2008, 2008r2, 2012, 2014

## 7.23.12 {#72312}

**Release date: February 19th, 2020**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "7.23.12" %}}

### Fixes

* <a name="93998"></a>We fixed an issue where export mappings that use XML choice or XML inheritance threw exceptions during runtime. (Ticket 93998)
* <a name="95390"></a>We fixed an issue in JSON import mappings, where using a JSON structure that defines an array of objects and using a microflow in the mapping resulted in no data being imported. (Ticket 95390)
* We fixed the identifier reserver timeout error that occurred due to long garbage collector pauses. (Ticket 88181)
* We now use the network timeout in the identifier reserver for PostgreSQL and DB2 instead of the JVM-based timer. This can be disabled by setting the `UseNetworkTimeout` parameter to `false`. (Tickets 88010, 92169, 93573)
* We introduced the `JdbcLoginTimeout` parameter to limit the database connection establishment time (with a default of 5 seconds). (Tickets 88010, 92169, 93573)

## 7.23.11 {#72311}

**Release date: December 23rd, 2019**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "7.23.11" %}}

### Improvements

* We improved the performance of export mappings that export persistable associated objects. They now retrieve batches of associated objects instead of individual associated objects. This reduces the number of calls to the database.

### Known Issues

* Export mappings that use XML choice or XML inheritance throw exceptions during runtime. (Ticket 93998)
	* Fixed in [7.23.12](#93998).
* When you use a JSON structure that defines an array of objects and also use a microflow in the mapping, then no data is imported. (Ticket 95390)
	* Fixed in [7.23.12](#95390).

## 7.23.10 {#72310}

**Release date: December 12th, 2019**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "7.23.10" %}}

### Improvements

* We upgraded the akka-actor and akka-stream libraries from 2.5.19 to 2.5.25. We also added the akka-stream-alpakka-xml library (version 1.1.1).

### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where retrieving large volumes of data from an OData endpoint threw an out-of-memory exception. (Ticket 86797)
* We fixed an issue where importing JSON using a find-by-key action would sometimes throw a stack overflow exception. (Tickets 87422, 92033)

## 7.23.9 {#7239}

**Release date: November 25th, 2019**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "7.23.9" %}}

###  Fixes

* We fixed a bug that caused an inconsistency in session time zone configuration in clustered environments where no default user time zone was selected. (Ticket 69401)
* We fixed two rare issues that occurred if you chose **Discard** when closing a modified document. (Ticket 90993)
* We improved the performance of committing many (1000+) entities in a microflow. (Tickets 85461, 89267, 89279, 90357)
* We fixed an issue where offline synchronization failed after the user's authentication token expired. (Tickets 85208, 85976)
* We fixed a bug where triggering a microflow after a failed login attempt worked unexpectedly. (Tickets 88971, 89196, 90471)

## 7.23.8 {#7238}

**Release date: September 19th, 2019**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "7.23.8" %}}

### Fixes

* For [published REST services](/refguide7/consumed-rest-services), we changed the behavior of `OPTIONS` requests when CORS is enabled. In that case, `OPTIONS` requests no longer require authentication. (Ticket 86452)
* We fixed an issue in the [call web service action](/refguide7/call-web-service-action). When the web service returns an empty object, there is no longer an error. An empty value is returned instead.
* We fixed an issue where newly created objects in offline apps did not successfully synchronize when they contained read-only attributes for a logged-in user. (Ticket 80083)
* When running a hybrid app or web app in a mobile browser on iOS 12.2, the keyboard did not appear when clicking an input field, and you had to click multiple times to get the keyboard. This is now fixed. (Tickets 82022, 82079, 82462, 85575, 86079, 86186)
* We fixed an issue where a non-persistable context entity was not available on a newly opened page. (Ticket 64168)
* We fixed an issue in document export that resulted in critical errors. (Ticket 87355)
* We fixed an issue where page templates with a data view that did not have a data source led to an exception during local deployment. (Ticket 85777)
* We fixed an issue in the Studio Pro App Store where clicking **Request info** for an App Store component led to an error message.
* We fixed an issue where Studio Pro installation failed if AdoptOpenJDK had been installed manually.
* We fixed an issue that prevented some users from merging specific revisions from another branch. (Ticket 85619)
* We fixed an error that sometimes occurred when changing the return type of a Java or JavaScript action.
* We fixed an issue that prevented sessions from staying alive when using optimistic locking. (Ticket 85222)
* We fixed a bug that created an unnecessary session when reusing an anonymous session. (Tickets 77806, 77927, 81465, 81488)
* We fixed the slow processing of OQLs that contain a long chain of either `AND` or `OR` nodes. (Ticket 84037)
* We fixed an issue where a variable containing `NULL` or `empty` caused an error when used in the string comparison functions of XPath expressions. (Ticket 78645)
* We fixed an issue where the row order was mixed up when multiple sort directions were added using `XPathBasicQuery.addSort`.

## 7.23.7 {#7237}

**Release date: July 23rd, 2019**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "7.23.7" %}}

### Improvements

* We improved logging to better diagnose problems with staying signed in to the Desktop Modeler.
* You will now be warned if you have no attribute selected while entering entity indexes.

### Fixes

* <a name="69295"></a>We fixed an issue where the error-checking progress bar remained stuck. (Ticket 69295)
* <a name="85976"></a>We fixed an issue where you could not open a domain model when it was migrated to version 7.23.6 if the domain model contained an **association of length 0px**. (Ticket 85976)
* We fixed an issue in the [call web service action](/refguide7/call-web-service-action) where the **Convert to custom header** button threw an error when one or more expressions were left empty. (Ticket 84513)
* We fixed an issue in published REST services where upgrading a published REST service from version 7.10 to version 7.13 or above set **Requires authentication** method to *No*.
* We fixed an error in the domain model editor that displayed a big red cross if associations had zero length. (Tickets 85602, 85421, 85308)
* We fixed an issue where the wrong profile was loaded after login when previewing a non-responsive profile in the browser. (Ticket 83617)
* We fixed an issue in the document exporter where dates defaulted to a European format instead of applying the project language settings. (Ticket 78711)
* We improved the editing behavior of the [data grid widget](/refguide7/data-grid) so that when an on-change microflow is slow, it no longer resets to the old values. (Ticket 84282)
* We fixed an issue with setting the values of the **owner** and **createdDate** system members when a new object is created. (Ticket 83424)
* We fixed an issue where CPU usage became too high. If critical error messages are logged, `EchoAction` now returns only the first ten of them. (Ticket 82162)
* We fixed an issue where pasting a [Model Share](/refguide7/model-share) into the **System** module resulted in an error.

## 7.23.6 {#7236}

**Release date: June 25th, 2019**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "7.23.6" %}}

### Improvements
