---
title: "8.0"
parent: "8"
description: "The release notes Mendix Studio Pro version 8.0 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
#ki: "MySQL 8.0 cannot" = DAT-1530
---

## 8.0.0 Beta 3 {#803}

**Release date: July 2nd, 2019**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "8.0.3" %}}

### New Features

#### Microflows in the Connector Kit

You can now expose your microflows as **Toolbox** actions, as is already available for Java and JavaScript actions.

### Improvements

* <a name="float-currency"></a>The types **float** and **currency** have been deprecated since Mendix 6. In Mendix 8, using these types is no longer allowed. If your app project still contains a lot of those types, we now help you more in getting rid of them. By right-clicking an error message and selecting **Convert all Float/Currency to Decimal**, you can quickly fix almost all float-related errors.
* To avoid confusion, we changed the naming of **variables** and **objects** in the microflow editor. Previously, the term "variable" could be used in different ways: as a name for a list of objects or as an object itself. This has now been cleared up. There are some outstanding changes that will be addressed in future.
* Exclusive split and inheritance split have been renamed to **Decision** and **Object type decision**, respectively.
* You can make many native widgets conditionally editable in Studio Pro.
* [Mendix Assist](/refguide/mx-assist-studio-pro) now takes the return type of a microflow into account when providing recommendations.
* In published OData services, you can now specify the path. It always starts with **/odata/**, but after that, you can specify more than just the service name. Use this, for example, to make the version a part of the URL.
* In the Studio Pro user interface of published OData services, we renamed **Entity set name** to **Exposed set name** in order to clearly express that this is an exposed name.
* We added a documentation/help button to the dialog box for editing a message definition.
* In the **Call REST action**, we added support for posting form data to a REST service.
* We upgraded Swagger UI (used in the interactive documentation of published REST services) from 3.4.3 to 3.22.2.
* Because this is Mendix Studio Pro, the executable file is now named **studiopro.exe**.
* We improved logging to better diagnose problems with staying signed in to Studio Pro.
* If **critical messages** have been logged, the echo action now only returns the first 10 messages. It also reports the total number of critical messages logged.
* Averages of integer attributes are now calculated using decimals instead of floats.
* The custom runtime property `DataStorage.CountOnAttribute` has been removed.
* Stricter type-checking is now applied on query parameter values: arbitrary arrays are no longer allowed to be passed, and passing null as an argument of `RANGEBEGIN/RANGEEND` now results in an error.

#### Nanoflow Improvements

Date expression functions can now be used in nanoflows. Note that these functions use the time settings of the user's browser instead of the server settings. Parsing and formatting time zones is not supported in nanoflows.

#### Database Improvements

We updated database vendor versions described below.

* We added support for the following:
    * Oracle 12.2
    * MariaDB 10.2, 10.3
    * MySQL 8
    * PostgreSQL 11
* We dropped support for the following versions no longer supported by vendors:
    * Oracle 11, 12.1
    * MySQL 5.5, 5.6
    * MariaDB 10.0
    * PostgreSQL 9.2, 9.3
    * SQL Server 2008, 2008r2, 2012
* We dropped support for versions that will no longer be supported by Q4 2019:
    * PostgreSQL 9.4
    * SQL Server 2014

### Fixes

* <a name="69295"></a>We fixed an issue where the error check progress bar remained stuck. (Ticket 69295)
* <a name="82615"></a>**Design mode** now properly supports all the changes made to custom widget properties and no longer displays an eternal loading spinner for pages that contain them. (Ticket 82615)
* Previously, you could select the user role token in nanoflow XPath retrieves, resulting in an invalid token error. This is now updated, and the user role token is no longer selectable here. (Ticket 83007)
* SVG support was broken in [8.0.0 Beta 2](#802). It has been restored to its former glory.
* We made it possible to have more than one thousand documents at the same level in Studio Pro, but please try to avoid that situation anyway. (Ticket 82990)
* We noticed that Mendix Assist was rather slow on big microflows, which made it rather unusable in that context. Well, not anymore!
* We fixed an issue where log messages were truncated if they contained null characters.
* We fixed an issue where pasting a [Model Share](/refguide/model-share) into the **System** module resulted in an error.
* We added checks that warn you when you create a validation rule that will crash when running your app. (Tickets 82448, 46497)

### Breaking Changes

* We dropped support for the **float** and **currency** types. For more information on this change, see the [improvement](#float-currency) documented above.
* After being deprecated for years, cross-module associations to **System** with owner **Both** are no longer supported.
* We rely on the default locale preferences of the Java Virtual Machine (JVM). Since Java 9, the JVM prefers Common Locale Data Repository (CLDR) locales over built-in Java Runtime Environment (JRE) ones. This means that some locales will have different configurations. For example, in an **en_US** locale, the default date time format is different. As a consequence, in microflow expressions, functions like `formatDateTime` as well as `toString` calling on a `MendixDateTime` object using a default pattern might return a different result.
* We now require Java 11 as the minimum Java version for compiling and running Mendix applications.
* We removed the `code`, `permanent`, `eden`, `survivor`, and `tenured` fields from the `memory` section of the `runtime_statistics` admin action's result. They were already reported as `0` (in Mendix 7).
* The `com.mendix.core.conf.Configuration` interface's `getCACerficates` and `getClientCertificates` methods as well as the `com.mendix.core.conf.WebServiceCertificateInfo` class's `getCertificateInputStream` method now throw `IOException` instead of `FileNotFoundException`. As these are checked exceptions, users of these public API method should adapt their code.
* We stopped including **Bootstrap** JavaScript code in resources under the *lib/bootstrap/js* path. If your theme's HTML page still imports these files, you must include them in your theme explicitly.
* We migrated Studio Pro to **.NET Framework 4.7.2**. This adds more security, performance, and stability, and it includes better support for viewing Studio Pro on high DPI screens.
* MxBuild now requires **Mono 5.20.x** to run.

### Limitations

* Building native mobile apps with Mendix 8.0.0 Beta 3 requires using the latest version of the **Make It Native** app from [Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.mendix.developerapp) or [Apple App Store](https://apps.apple.com/app/make-it-native/id1334081181). The latest version of the Make It Native app is not compatible with Mendix [8.0.0 Beta 2](#802) and below.

### Known Issues

* MySQL 8.0 cannot be used with the default authentication plugin as of this moment. Mendix uses the open-source [MariaDB](https://mariadb.com/) driver to connect, which has not added support as of yet. We will include the updated driver as soon as it is [released](https://jira.mariadb.org/browse/CONJ-663). To resolve this issue, you may consider using the [previous default plugin](https://mysqlserverteam.com/upgrading-to-mysql-8-0-default-authentication-plugin-considerations/) until the driver has been updated.

## 8.0.0 Beta 2 {#802}

**Release date: June 12th, 2019**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "8.0.2" %}}

### New Features

#### AI-Assisted Development in Studio Pro

We added support for Mendix Assist in Studio Pro. For more information, see [Mendix Assist](/refguide/mx-assist-studio-pro) in the *Studio Pro 8 Guide*.

#### Subversion Upgraded to Version 1.9

We upgraded the [Apache Subversion library](https://subversion.apache.org/download) used in Studio Pro to version 1.9. The previous version (1.7) is no longer supported in Studio Pro. Apache Subversion 1.9 brings improvements to performance, functionality, and network connectivity.

However, the new version uses a different working copy format, which means that you will not be able to use [TortoiseSVN](https://tortoisesvn.net/) 1.7.15 on those working copies.

The recommended setup for now is to keep TortoiseSVN 1.7.15 to use with app projects from Mendix versions 5, 6, and 7, and to install [SmartSVN](https://www.smartsvn.com/) to use with Mendix 8 projects.

For more information, see [Subversion 1.9 in Mendix 8 Beta 2](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/questions/94078) on the Mendix Forum.

### Improvements

* In the [OpenApi 2.0 (Swagger)](/refguide/open-api) documentation of a REST operation based on a message definition, we now use the exposed single name as the definition name. This is a better choice for the title than the name of the message definition.
* We introduced the `NoClientCertificateUsages` [custom setting](/refguide/custom-settings), in which you can specify web services. 
* We improved the UI for [published OData services](/refguide/published-odata-services). It is now a tab instead of a pop-up window.
* In [published OData services](/refguide/published-odata-services), you can now specify the names of associations to be used in the metadata.
* Successful login, user session creation, reuse of an anonymous session, and session destroy events are now logged in the trace log.
* We improved the performance of showing bulk log lines in Studio Pro. Log lines are now shown more quickly when they are received from a running server.
* We upgraded the AWS Java SDK For Amazon S3 from 1.11.525 to 1.11.534.

#### Nanoflow Improvements

* With this release, nanoflows have received custom error-handling functionality. The experience is similar to what you are used to in microflows: you can select **Custom** error-handling from the context menu of an activity, and then use the `$latestError` variable in your error flow.
* This functionality can come in handy when, for example, you are synchronizing in an offline app while the app has no network connection. By default, such synchronization used to fail the nanoflow and show a message to the user. Now, you have the power to adjust that behavior.

### Fixes

* We fixed an issue in the metadata of [published OData services](/refguide/published-odata-services) where if you published associations as links and gave the same exposed name on both sides, the metadata was invalid. This was because it used the same role on both sides.
* We fixed an issue in validation rules for the the domain model editor where the minimum and maximum values were shown in the wrong order.
* We fixed an issue in consumed REST services where encoded URLs were decoded too early. We upgraded *httpclient.jar* from 4.5.7 to 4.5.8. (Ticket 83346)
* We fixed an issue where the **Progress**  pop-up window was too small to show the progress bar when the message was long.
* We fixed an issue where some [Client APIs](https://apidocs.mendix.com/8/client/) were not available to [JavaScript actions](/howto/extensibility/write-javascript-actions) on [native mobile](/refguide/native-mobile) app projects.
* We fixed an issue where a dynamic image using an object over an association did not show on a native page.
* We fixed an issue where the on-click nanoflow of a dynamic image widget on a native page did not receive a parameter object.
* We fixed an issue where the [Design mode](/refguide/page) did not correctly load when the app project contained native custom widgets.

### Deprecations

* Using system entities other than **User**, **FileDocument**, or **Image** as generalizations is no longer allowed. Using other system entities was deprecated in Mendix version 5.15.
* We removed the deprecated `retrieveXPathQueryEscaped` and `retrieveXPathSchemaEscaped` methods from the [Runtime API](https://apidocs.mendix.com/8/runtime/com/mendix/core/Core.html).
* We removed the deprecated `ISession.getLanguage()` method. Use `Core.getLanguage(IContext)`instead.
* We removed the deprecated `ISession.getUser()` method. Use `ISession.getUser(context)`instead.
* We deprecated the following [Client API](https://apidocs.mendix.com/8/client/) methods: `mx.baseUrl`, `mx.session.getUserAttribute`, `mx.session.getUserClass`, and `mx.ui.action`.

### Breaking Changes

* We fixed the annoying behavior where the name of an entity or enumeration caused compiling errors in your Java action user code or dataset proxies. This is a breaking change in Java-code generation. Studio Pro no longer adds `_ParameterX` to Java action parameter names in the generated code. (Tickets 55605, 55688, 55997, 56002, 56250, 59735, 59943, 67995, 69693, 80018, 81150)
* Previously, the Mendix Client put a lot of effort into adding `mx-focus` to an element that received focus and removing it when the element lost the focus. Because all [supported browsers](/refguide/system-requirements#browsers) now have proper support for the `:focus` pseudo-class, it is no longer necessary to do that. If you are using this class in your theme, replace it with the `:focus` pseudo-class.
* We blacklisted a number of custom widgets which were using deprecated APIs that got removed upon the release of Mendix 8.0.0.

### Known Issues

* In some cases, while doing an error check, a progress bar starts loading and does not stop. This is a user interface problem, the error check itself is completed properly. (Ticket 69295)
   * Fixed in [8.0.0 Beta 3](#69295).
* When you create a new project based on a blank project template, the **Design mode** does not work, it keeps showing a loading indicator. (Ticket 82615)
   * Fixed in [8.0.0 Beta 3](#82615).

## 8.0.0 Beta 1 {#800}

**Release date: May 2nd, 2019**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "8.0.0" %}}

{{% alert type="info" %}}
These are the release notes for Mendix 8.0, which is currently a beta release. For more information, see [Mendix Beta Features](../beta-features/index).
{{% /alert %}}

### New Features

#### Native Mobile

Mendix now enables you to build true native mobile apps as easily as you build other apps with Mendix. These native apps offer fast performance, smooth animations, natural interaction patterns (like swipe gestures), and improved access to all native device capabilities. Mendix native mobile apps are offline-first, which means they work regardless of their internet connection. For more information, see [Offline First](/refguide/offline-first).

**Native mobile** is a new navigation profile type added next to **Hybrid mobile**, which is still supported and available.

The native theme and styling is part of the Mendix Atlas UI framework. This means your app will look great out of the box, while you will still fully control your app's styling. Note that native styling is based on JavaScript instead of SASS/CSS. For more information on styling, see [Native Styling](/refguide/native-styling-refguide).

To start creating a native mobile application, we recommend creating a new project based on the [Native Mobile Quickstart](https://appstore.home.mendix.com/link/app/109511/) app. This starter app contains everything you need to quickly get started: a preconfigured native navigation profile, a large variety of mobile-specific widgets, and nanoflow activities that let you leverage your device's capabilities.

The Mendix **Make It Native** app is currently in beta phase as part of the Mendix 8.0.0 Beta. The app is available from [Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.mendix.developerapp) and [Apple TestFlight](/howto/mobile/getting-started-with-native-mobile#downloading-for-ios). Throughout the beta phase, we will continue to improve and extend the functionality. However, you may encounter some limitations:

* Mendix native mobile apps can only be viewed using the Make It Native app. Throughout the beta program, we will add support to create stand-alone apps (for example, Android APK or iOS IPA) that can be distributed using your preferred distribution channel (for example, Google Play or the Apple App Store).
* Running and testing native mobile apps is currently only supported locally (meaning, from Mendix Studio Pro). Currently, app projects with a **Native phone** profile cannot be deployed to the cloud. This will be fixed with the next beta release.

#### JavaScript Actions

Extensibility is an important capability of Mendix, and JavaScript actions is a powerful new feature for Mendix 8. Studio Pro 8 now supports extending the platform via JavaScript actions that allow you to write custom activities for nanoflows in JavaScript. This can be used to leverage device or browser APIs, extend nanoflows with custom logic, perform complex calculations, and explore many other possibilities.

{{% alert type="info" %}}
Kudos to [Marcel Groeneweg for his upvoted idea](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas/665) about this on the [Mendix Idea Forum](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas/)!
{{% /alert %}}

In addition to being awesome, JavaScript actions are already quite familiar to Mendix developers, because they are similar to Java actions. You will find the most-loved features of Java actions available: different parameter types, exposing as a nanoflow activity in the Studio Pro Toolbox, and packaging and distributing through the (public or private) Mendix App Store.

What really makes JavaScript actions stand out is that you can edit them without leaving Studio Pro. There is a powerful editor integrated right inside the **Code** tab of the JavaScript action document. This is based on the [Monaco Editor](https://microsoft.github.io/monaco-editor/index.html), which is the editor that powers the most popular IDE, Visual Studio Code. This editor delivers a great experience, as it supports smart context-aware auto-completion, embedded documentation on web and Mendix APIs, correct indenting, and code-friendly shortcuts.

#### Pluggable Widgets

This version introduces a new way of building widgets called pluggable widgets. This allows you to create widgets with React and use the simpler yet more powerful Mendix APIs. The main benefit of the new pluggable widget API is that it is truly reactive.

To support Mendix developers even more, we released a Yeoman generator that can be used to easily generate a widget project. This will get you quickly started via a fast and easy developer flow.

You can use this generator to create widgets for web and hybrid apps as well as native mobile apps based on JavaScript or TypeScript. The generator includes various options like creating an empty project, using a template, and generating test cases.

Moreover, pluggable widgets are able to use new and more powerful property types, such as the following:

* A `textTemplate` property type allows you to select [text templates](/refguide/text#text-template). The widget will receive a property where the arguments
in the text template are already expanded.
* An `action` property type allows you to select an action like call-microflow or open-page (in a way similar to the [on-click of an action button](/refguide/action-button#on-click)). The widget will receive a callback to execute the configured action.
* The `icon` property type allows you to configure an image or a glyphicon. We added a helper component to make rendering this property easy.
* The `expression` property allows you to configure an [expression](/refguide/expressions). The widget will get the result of that expression as an property.
* The `systemProperty` with the key `Label` indicates that the widget can have a label similar to that of the [text box](/refguide/text-box#label-properties). No additional code is needed in the widget for client-side support.

We also gave you more control of property dialog boxes for pluggable and custom widgets in Mendix Studio Pro. We added the new `propertyGroup` element, which groups nested properties into a tab (for a top-level `propertyGroup`) or a group box (for a nested one). More than two levels of nesting is not supported.

Another powerful capability is the option to use external dependencies and install them using **npm**.

If you want to start on your own pluggable widget after reading this, see [How to Build a Text Box Pluggable Widget: Part 1](/howto/extensibility/create-a-pluggable-widget-one) to get you started. 

#### Design Properties

The design properties you know and love from Mendix Studio are now also available in Mendix Studio Pro. Design properties are defined in a [customizable](/howto/front-end/extend-design-properties-to-customize) **settings.json** file in your **theme** folder.
If you are using a class name in multiple places, and afterwards decide that it makes sense to have a design property for it, you can extend the settings file and use the **Project** > **Tools** > **Convert classes to design properties** menu option to convert from class names to design properties. When upgrading to Mendix Studio Pro this conversion is already done for you. 
We also added the design properties in the **Find Advanced** dialog box so that you can easily find them.

#### Structure Mode & Design Mode

The **Edit mode** in the page editor has been renamed to the **Structure mode**, and the **View mode** has been upgraded to the **Design mode**! The **Design mode** is not limited to just previewing your app, as you can now edit the page without having to switch modes. Combined with significant improvements in resource management, we do not know why you would ever want to go back! 

### Improvements

* When you search for unused items in Studio Pro, unused message definitions are now also reported.
* When adding a custom setting configuration, the **Name** and **Value** fields are now required.
* You will now be warned if you have no attribute selected while entering entity indexes.
* We fixed a crash that you might have noticed when selecting an application from the **Recent Apps** screen.
* It turned out that the fast re-run option (that is, when you re-run an app project already running locally) is too fast! Some people did not notice their browser was reloaded with new changes before they opened it, so we added an explicit notification message in the browser.
* We improved how we generate the contents of list views (via the **Automatically fill the contents** option). Now, inside a read-only list view, we generate text widgets instead of input widgets.
* We now allow you to pass a Boolean expression to a string function in microflow expressions.
    {{% alert type="info" %}}This is based on an [upvoted idea from Sander Wamelink](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas/402) submitted to the [Mendix Idea Forum](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas). Thanks, Sander!
    {{% /alert %}}
* When using the **Batch Translate** and **Batch Replace** forms, we now warn you when you have nothing selected.
* We improved the performance of Mendix Studio Pro when you are adding or deleting documents. The algorithm ensuring consistency now performs fewer searches through the app project.
* We changed the deprecated content type for */api-doc/fonts/OpenSans-Light-webfont.woff* to *font/woff*.

#### Input Widgets

To improve the quality of the client, we rewrote the text box, text area, check box, drop-down, radio button, and date picker input widgets. For these widgets, we implemented the following improvements:

* Widgets are shown as read-only if you try to edit an object you have no right to access due to an XPath constraint.
* Previously, when a server side validation was set for an attribute for which the widget is conditionally hidden, the validation was not shown to a user. We now show you a validation error in a pop-up window.
* When you enter an invalid value in the conditionally hidden widget, this value is cleared. When the widget is shown, it will contain the current valid value.

##### Text Box

We fixed an issue that occurred when you changed a value resulting in a validation error, you reverted the value to the original one, and the validation error was not removed.

The **On change** event is now triggered if you change the value of a numeric text box and press <kbd>Enter</kbd>. This behavior is consistent with the character and date fields.

We also made a number of improvements on the input mask of the text box:

* It now properly supports pasting a value in the input mask.
* Non-ASCII characters are supported.
* Mask characters can be escaped.
* The database value is now properly displayed according to the input mask in all the browsers supported by the client.
* There is a consistency check for the correspondence between the maximum length of a field and the length of the entered input mask.

##### Text Area

We introduced the following improvements for the text area widget:

* The counter is now always correct, even when unfocused and when special `Alt` sequences are typed.
* The counter is displayed even when the read-only style is in control.
* Auto-grow has a smoother rendering, with no more delay between the input and the actual growth of the widget.
* A disabled text area with auto-grow and read-only style controls now actually grows.

##### Check Box

We introduced the following improvements for the check box widget:

* When the form orientation is vertical, the error message is now correctly put after the input instead of after the label and before the input.
* The check-box CSS class was set on the wrong `div` if the read-only style was set to control and the form orientation was horizontal. It was missing if the form orientation was vertical. We have fixed this.

##### Drop-Down & Radio Button

The following improvement was introduced for the drop-down and radio button widgets: Deleted enumeration options that are still in the database are now shown correctly (but cannot be selected anymore).

##### Date Picker

We introduced the following improvements for the date picker widget:

* The timestamp zero is now displayed properly.
* The native date picker now dispatches changes on every change in the native calendar/picker.
* Opening the calendar no longer triggers the **on-change** action/validation immediately.
* Quoted characters in custom date formats are now handled correctly (for example, in the default placeholder).
* Opening the calendar in right-to-left mode no longer messes up the page layout.
* Opening the calendar for an empty date now correctly highlights the current date as selected date.
* When formatting minutes, the leading zero is no longer mandatory.

#### Nanoflows Power-Up

A nanoflow is a powerful tool to make your offline apps really smart and also easy to build. With this major release, we are making them even better!

The following improvements close the gap between what you can model in nanoflows versus microflows:

* The **Retrieve objects** activity now supports XPath constraints like microflows do. You can use familiar language to limit the data you retrieve from offline databases (or online databases, when the nanoflow is run online). For now, you cannot follow associations in these constraints.
* The **Aggregate list** activity makes all your lists count! Along with **List operation**, this brings nanoflows up to par with microflows when it comes to working with lists.
* We now support the **Show message** activity for nanoflows as well.
* We now allow nanoflows to be used as data sources for data views. This should reduce the need to pass parameters to pages and especially help with the home pages of offline apps.
* You can now use the simple but handy `toString` function in nanoflow expressions as well as in conditional visibility expressions.

#### Published OData Services

We made the following significant improvements to published OData services:

* You will now see the responses to OData calls in trace logging.
* You can now specify the version of the OData service. This is shown in `/odata-doc/`.
* You can now write documentation for each resource
* You can now choose between different authentication methods, including custom authentication using a microflow.
* Clients can now order by the properties of associated objects.
* Clients can now filter results based on associated data (when associations are exposed as links).
* Clients can now filter based on many-associations using `any`.

### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where parsing XML with elements differing in case sensitivity failed.
* We fixed an issue where parsing an empty date-time resulted in a default date instead of empty. (Ticket 79828)
* We fixed an issue where offline app synchronization failed when synchronized file entities had security constraints. (Ticket 76082)
* We fixed a bug where a data grid tooltip was displayed with missing data. (Ticket 78301)
* The document exporter will now use country-specific currency formatting if such a language is selected. (Ticket 80402)
* When an end-user is accessing a page URL without sufficient privileges, the login page will now show this message: "You don't have enough permissions to access this page. You may try to log in as a different user." (Ticket 46929)
* When an end-user is accessing a page URL without sufficient privileges, they might want an easy way to go back to the home page. If your theme does not already contain a **Go home** button, you must now add a button with the `goHomeButton` ID in your login page in your theme. This button will only be shown when the end-user is trying to access a page URL they do not have permission to access. (Tickets 46929, 68401)
* We fixed a bug in the **Extract sub-microflow** functionality for loops with objects inside. (Ticket 77673)
* You will not encounter errors anymore when debugging an application from Eclipse with the default runtime port. (Tickets 63971, 64886, 68651)
* We fixed an issue where you could not configure a Java action call action with many parameters. (Ticket 55350)
* A disconnected debugger session will no longer cause crashes. (Ticket 76990)
* The **Go to microflow** option now always shows up at the top of your context menu, where it belongs. 
* Several issues triggered by moving or adding page widgets were addressed.
* We (finally) consolidated the default values for static and dynamic images. When you add an image to a page, it will now always have the same default size, regardless of its type.
* We fixed an out-of-memory issue on cluster slaves caused by persistent session objects. (Ticket 80910)
* We improved and fixed the documentation of the `Core.commit` and `Core.commitWithoutEvents` methods. (Ticket 80711)
* We removed the deprecated annotation of the `Core.getActiveSession(..)` and `Core.getActiveSessions` Java methods. These methods now return the actual active sessions.
* We fixed a situation where data set access was out of date without showing an error. (Ticket 80381)
* We removed the **Get Started** page from the interface, because it is no longer actively used and under certain circumstances caused a crash. (Ticket 81645)
* We fixed an issue where Studio Pro crashed when previewing some images that were very narrow. (Ticket 80161)
* We fixed an issue in consumed web services where the header for SOAP 1.2 was `text/xml` instead of `application/soap+xml`. (Tickets 77527, 77867, 80167)
* We fixed an issue in published REST services where using a custom microflow for authentication resulted in an empty request body in the operation microflow. (Tickets 80147, 81114)
* <a name="81540"></a>We fixed an issue where after enabling [collaborative development with Studio](/refguide/collaborative-development) in the Developer Portal for an existing app project, Studio Pro suggested doing this again. (Ticket 81540)
* <a name="81204"></a>We fixed the issue where debugging through the Studio Pro **Console** log was not possible while running an app project from Eclipse, because the Console log would only show an empty window. (Ticket 81204)

### Breaking Changes

* We removed support for running Studio Pro on 32-bit systems. Studio Pro now runs only on 64-bit systems.
* We removed support for Windows Phone and iOS versions 9–11.
* We removed support for the deprecated old implementation of web service calls.
* We removed the deprecated setting `WebServiceClientCertificates`. Use `ClientCertificateUsages` instead.
* We removed the deprecated setting `com.mendix.storage.s3.PerformDeleteFromStorage`. Use `com.mendix.storage.PerformDeleteFromStorage` instead.
* We removed the deprecated Java methods `Core.integration().executeHttpRequest()`, `Core.importStream()`, and `Core.exportStream()`. Use `Core.http().executeHttpRequest()`, `Core.integration().importStream()`, and `Core.integration().exportStream()` instead.
* We removed the deprecated Java methods `Core.addListener`, `MendixHashString.setInitialHash`, `IContext.addFeedback`, `IContext.getFeedbackList`, and `Configuration.getConstantValue(Object component, String key)`.
* We removed support for IBM swift storage.
* We removed the Client APIs marked as to-be-removed in Mendix 8.  Check the currently supported list in [Mendix 8 Client API Documentation](https://apidocs.mendix.com/8/client/).
* We removed support for the deprecated report chart widget.
* We removed support for the currency and float data types.
* We removed the deprecated Java enumeration value `ObjectState.COMMITTING`.
* Session removal is now logged at the `DEBUG` level, not the `INFO` level.
* When a custom widget is used to change the markup of an input widget that has been rewritten, the applied changes will be lost when the input widget is completely re-rendered (which might happen, for example, when it is conditionally hidden and shown). Examples of such custom widgets are the **Set attribute** and **EnumClass** widgets.
* Apps made in Mendix Studio Pro, version 8.0 and above, cannot be deployed to Mendix Cloud *Version 3*.

#### Upgrades

We upgraded the following runtime dependencies:

* **axiom-api**, **axiom-dom**, and **axiom-impl** to 1.2.22
* **azure-storage** from 8.1.0 to 8.2.0
* **ttpcore** to 4.4.11
* **xmlbeans** from 2.6.0\_2 to 3.0.2\_1

### Deprecations

* We deprecated the `CoreAction.setSystemAction` Java method.

### Known Issues

* In some cases, while doing an error check, a progress bar starts loading and does not stop. This is a user interface problem, the error check itself is completed properly. (Ticket 69295)
   * Fixed in [8.0.0 Beta 3](#69295).
* When you create a new project based on a blank project template, the **Design mode** does not work, it keeps showing a loading indicator. (Ticket 82615)
   * Fixed in [8.0.0 Beta 3](#82615).
