---
title: "8.12"
parent: "8"
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro version 8.12 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
#When updating, remember to update the Latest Mendix Releases file
#KI: "When starting the Mendix Runtime" - RUN-2486
---

## 8.12.0 {#8120}

**Release date: July 28th, 2020**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "8.12.0" %}}

### New Features

#### Associations in Nanoflow Expressions

In Studio Pro 8.10, we introduced associations in microflow expressions. With this release, we are introducing the same feature for nanoflows. This will make it easy to get attributes over associations in nanoflows by simply writing `$variable/Module.Association/Module.TargetEntity/Attribute`.

#### Retrieving Attribute Values from a Data Source for Pluggable Widgets

When we introduced the [datasource](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/property-types-pluggable-widgets#datasource) property in [Studio Pro 8.7](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.7#capability), many users also wanted access to the values of attributes of the items in the data source. Great news: today your dreams come true! You can now link an [attribute property](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/property-types-pluggable-widgets#attribute) to a data source. This gives you access to the domain data in your pluggable widget. You do not have to worry about too much data being returned to the client, as we will only return the attributes which are needed. This feature opens a new range of possibilities for powerful new pluggable widgets.

### Improvements

* You can now set an icon for your application in the responsive navigation profile. End-users will see this icon in the tab bars and bookmarks of their web browser. To use this feature, make sure to update Atlas. It is no longer necessary to have a *favicon.ico* in your **theme** folder.
* The application title in your navigation profile can now be translated.
* When showing a page from a microflow, nanoflow, or widget, you can now use variables in the page title override. 
    {{% alert type="info" %}}This is based on an [upvoted idea from Jelle Dekker](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas/76) submitted to the [Mendix Idea Forum](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas). Thanks, Jelle!{{% /alert %}}
* In Studio Pro, it is now possible to configure **Disabled during action** for many microflow and nanoflow actions that are not on buttons. This includes the **On click** events of list views and containers. (Ticket 88628)
* When you use S3 file storage, you can now use the list of trusted CA Certificates to also trust the certificate of the storage service by using the [setting](/refguide/custom-settings#5-amazon-s3-storage-service-settings) `com.mendix.storage.s3.UseCACertificates`. (Ticket 77686, 94143 and 99514)
* When you use S3 file storage, you can set `com.mendix.storage.s3.ForceGlobalBucketAccessEnabled` to `false` to disallow the service to access buckets in a different region than the one you specified. (Ticket 99514)
* We added a feature that allows exporting invalid characters in published OData services. It replaces characters that are invalid in XML with the DEL character. (Ticket 101056)
* When synchronizing changes in offline-first apps of objects that are no longer available on the server at the time of synchronizing these changes are discarded. This can happen when objects are deleted or not accessible. In this release, we added additional logging of the discarded changes in a System entity called **SynchronizationError**. This makes it possible to provide custom rollback mechanisms and detect possible bugs in your application that can cause this situation.
* We upgraded the following JDBC drivers:
    - SAP HANA to version 2.4.76
* We introduced the ability to access the list of failed validations as part of `DataValidationInfo`. Previously only the message which belonged to failed validations was provided. We introduced an enumeration to indicate the type of data validation in `IDataValidation`.
* We improved the implementation of binary attributes. Now `getValue` and `setValue` can be used to interact with binary data. In particular, `getValue` retrieves binary data from the database when it is first called.
* We have made it possible to specify an alternative text for menu items’ icons. That can be useful when you use a menu without text and want to keep it accessible to screen readers. (Ticket 100209)
* We added support for many autocomplete types in the **Text box** widget to improve accessibility and UX for end-users. For more information, see [Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#input-purposes).
* We added the option to configure an aria-label when the **Show Label** is set to **No** for improved screen reader support.
* We added the option to hide containers and its content for screen readers for improved screen reader support.

### Fixes

* You can now use the image upload widget to upload SVGs as well. (Ticket 101818)
* We fixed a resize issue with pop-up windows in mobile browsers when a software keyboard is open. (Ticket 99477)
* Dragging and dropping a custom widget with an attribute selector into a nested data view in Studio Pro made it impossible to select a correct attribute afterwards, resulting in incorrect behaviour in the client. This issue is now fixed. (Ticket 101394)
* We fixed an issue in web service call actions where the proxy settings would be disabled and could not be set. (Ticket 103677)
* We fixed an issue where deployment could show an **Oops** dialog when a Runtime constant was missing.
* When you replace an existing module with a new version of the same module, Studio Pro now checks for every index if it can be reused. If the contents have not been changed, it does not have to be rebuilt, and that reduces downtime. (Ticket 87221, 97497, 98060, 101556)
* We fixed an issue where string attributes were incorrectly formatted as a date in the debugger. (Ticket 99119)
* We fixed an issue which can cause 'session keep alive' to become defunct if a database connection becomes stale. (Ticket 102373)
* We fixed the exception which occurred when `Core.getActiveSessions` was invoked and there was a session in the database without an associated user. (Ticket 101783)
* We fixed an issue where the textbox inside Template grid would throw unexpected errors with certain scenarios. (Ticket 100886)
* We fixed an issue where the loading spinner for app templates when creating a new app disappeared too soon.

### Known Issues

* When starting the Mendix Runtime, a misleading warning is logged on the `M2EE` log node: "Cannot use null as same site policy. Possible values are [STRICT, LAX, NONE]". This message should be ignored and will be removed in the future.
