---
title: "8.18"
parent: "8"
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro version 8.18 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
#KI: "When you update a consumed OData service" - DML-889
---

{{% alert type="info" %}}
The preferred Studio Pro version 8 releases for apps in production are [8.6](8.6), [8.12](8.12), and 8.18. High-priority issues fixed in [7.23](7.23) patch releases will also be fixed in these version 8 patch releases if applicable.
{{% /alert %}}

## 8.18.1 {#8181}

**Release date: February 1st, 2021**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "8.18.1" %}}

### Improvements

* We updated the [SAP HANA](/refguide8/saphana) driver to 2.7.9.
* We now allow JDBC URL options to set data source properties for SAP HANA.
* We disabled the `transactionalLobs` option in SAP HANA.
* We improved the performance of the `Core.getActiveSession(userName)` method.

### Fixes

* We fixed a runtime issue in [Call REST](/refguide8/call-rest-action) activities when calling endpoints that keep the connection alive. The issue occurred in Mendix Cloud v4- and AWS-hosted apps, because those environments sever connections after 6 minutes. Setting `http.client.CleanupAfterSeconds` to `355` fixes that issue, so now we use that as the default value. (Tickets 110860, 111317, 111881, 112067, 112073, 113401, 113920)
* We fixed a runtime issue in Call REST activities where trace logging changed the contents of responses. (Tickets 112613, 113750, 114499, 114516)
* We fixed an issue where conditional visibility on a pluggable widget (or a widget inside a pluggable widget) did not work correctly if the pluggable widget was inside a snippet. (Ticket 113612)
* We fixed an error in the runtime where a widget retrieved over 1000 records. (Ticket 108750)
* We fixed an issue where calling a microflow from an [offline-first](/refguide8/offline-first) application triggered an unnecessary reload of data sources on the opened pages. (Ticket 114660)
* We fixed an issue in native mobile apps where a focused text input was hidden behind the keyboard on Android devices. Make sure to also update your versions of the [Make It Native app](/releasenotes/mobile/make-it-native-app) and [Native Builder](/releasenotes/mobile/native-builder). (Ticket 113397)
* We fixed an issue where errors occurred when performing certain operations (for example, moving documents) when certain custom widgets existed in your app project.

### Known Issues

* When you update a [consumed OData service](/refguide/consumed-odata-service) with a new version from [Mendix Data Hub](/data-hub/index) but close the document without saving, the blue arrow icon will no longer be shown to notify you about the available update for that service.
	* Workaround: Closing your app project and opening it again fixes this issue.

## 8.18.0 {#8180}

**Release date: January 26th, 2021**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "8.18.0" %}}

### New Features

#### Selective Synchronization

When building offline-first apps, there are different scenarios to prepare for, and sometimes you may want to only synchronize a single object or a small set of objects instead of all the data. Good news, we have extended the synchronization capabilities with the option to only synchronize selected objects from the device with the server. Now, the power is in your hands and the choice is yours. Use the [Synchronize](/refguide8/synchronize) activity in a nanoflow to synchronize all or selected objects (which can be both objects and files). This feature can greatly improve the user experience of your app and offers more flexibility.

For more information, see the [Synchronization](/refguide8/offline-first#synchronization) section of *Offline-First*.

#### The Future of Mobile Apps

At Mendix, we want to provide our customers with a future-proof platform, a significant part of which is always determined by underlying technology. We believe that [native mobile apps](https://www.mendix.com/blog/mobile-apps-go-native-part-i/) and [progressive web apps (PWAs)](https://www.mendix.com/mobile-architecture/#progressive-web-apps) are the future for mobile apps, in that they deliver a best-of-breed approach for building app store- and browser-based mobile apps. For more information, see the [Establishing Your Mobile Architecture Strategy](https://www.mendixworld.com/session/establishing-your-mobile-architecture-strategy/) session from last year's Mendix World.

We do not consider hybrid mobile (which is based on Cordova) to be future-proof technology anymore. Therefore, we would like to inform you that we have disabled the creation of hybrid mobile apps in this version of Studio Pro and have deprecated hybrid mobile apps in Studio Pro [9](9.0). 

For more information, see [Mendix Is First-to-Market with Expanded "All-in-One" Low-Code Platform; Launches Pre-Packaged Industry Apps for Even Faster Adoption of Low-Code in the Enterprise](https://www.mendix.com/press/mendix-is-first-to-market-with-expanded-all-in-one-low-code-platform-launches-pre-packaged-industry-apps-for-even-faster-adoption-of-low-code-in-the-enterprise/).

#### Support for Non-Filterable & Non-Sortable Attributes

We added support for attributes that cannot be used for filtering or sorting. Previously, it was not possible to consume non-filterable or non-sortable attributes. Now it is possible to consume these attributes, extending what can you do with data from [Mendix Data Hub](/data-hub/).

To better support OData for Mendix Data Hub, we added the concept of [attribute limitations](/refguide8/attributes#limitations). Sometimes attributes in OData do not support sorting or filtering, and now Studio Pro is aware of that. Studio Pro shows an error to warn you when you do something with an attribute that is not possible, while allowing you to use the attributes for everything else.

The concept of attribute limitations is now extended to existing attribute types. This does not change their functionality (because these attribute types always had some restrictions), and now they behave the same as other non-filterable and non-sortable attributes.

### Improvements

* We added consistency checks to ensure the uniqueness of exposed names and exposed set names for published OData resources.
* We added a new way to specify which client certificate to use in the [Call REST service](/refguide8/call-rest-action) and [Call web service](/refguide8/call-web-service-action) activities.
* We improved the user interface for modeling [published OData services](/refguide8/published-odata-services) in Studio Pro. The old tree view of published attributes and associations is now a list.
* We now show the associations of [external entities](/refguide8/external-entities) in the [Data Hub pane](/refguide/data-hub-pane). Multiple associations between the same pair of external entities are grouped together, listing individual associations in the tooltip. Unsupported associations are grayed out and show a tooltip explaining the reason.
* The [Commit](/refguide/committing-objects) activity is now included in **Find usages** results.

### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where certain operations on binaries were only possible within a sudo context.
    {{% alert type="info" %}}Thanks to Marcel Groenweg for pointing this out!
    {{% /alert %}}
* We fixed an issue regarding the [Change list](/refguide8/change-list) microflow activity where if a list was set to itself, the contents were cleared. (Ticket 109243)
* We fixed several possible data synchronization issues that occurred in offline-first applications. (Ticket 101598)
* We fixed an issue where the [reference selector](/refguide8/reference-selector) widget did not show objects when used in an offline-first application. (Ticket 113384)
* We fixed an issue where a native mobile application failed to load during development. (Ticket 112952)
* We fixed an issue **View** > [Find](/refguide8/view-menu#find) did not find the text that was typed as [published REST operation](/refguide8/published-rest-operation) documentation. (Ticket 112648)
* We fixed an issue for published OData services where the app's default proxy settings were not used at runtime. (Ticket 109953)
* We fixed an issue where dynamic classes were not applied for [layout grid](/refguide8/layout-grid) rows and cells, [table](/refguide8/table) rows and cells, [scroll container](/refguide8/scroll-container) regions, and [data grid](/refguide8/data-grid) columns. We also fixed an issue where these were also not applied to the container widget. (Tickets 111048, 111810, 112312)
* When an XPath constraint used the `%CurrentObject%` token in a nested constraint, this resulted in an error in the client. This is now fixed. (Ticket 112034)
* When migrating files created before Mendix 6 to modern files, we now log the missing files instead of failing the migration. (Tickets 110317, 110969)
* We decreased the chance of deadlocks in our session administration system actions, and when deadlocks still occur, they are handled gracefully. (Ticket 111360)
* We fixed an issue that caused [Close page](/refguide8/close-page) activities to stop working after upgrading to [8.17](8.17). (Ticket 111576)
* We fixed an error where an error message appeared when you dragged a microflow onto the list of published REST operations and clicked **Cancel** on the dialog box.
* We fixed an issue in published OData services where publishing associations in a combination of entities with generalizations resulted in an incorrect contract.
* We fixed an issue where the picker element of an inline native [drop-down](/refguide8/drop-down) widget did not update on a selected value change when opened.
* We fixed an issue where the current branch was showing in the list of available branches to [merge](/refguide8/merge-dialog).

### Known Issues

* When you update a [consumed OData service](/refguide/consumed-odata-service) with a new version from [Mendix Data Hub](/data-hub/index) but close the document without saving, the blue arrow icon will no longer be shown to notify you about the available update for that service.
	* Workaround: Closing your app project and opening it again fixes this issue.
