---
title: "8.5"
parent: "8"
description: "The release notes for Mendix Desktop Modeler version 8.5 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
#KI: "MySQL 8.0 cannot" = DAT-1530 (upgrade & collaborative development issue = testing from PT-1591)
#KI: "The first deployment" = UICORE-211
---

## 8.5.0 {#850}

**Release date: December 19th, 2019**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "8.5.0" %}}

### New Features

* The **Enable for Mendix Studio** button in the [Branch Line Manager](/refguide/branch-line-manager-dialog) now turns into the **Disable for Mendix Studio** button if the branch is already enabled for [Mendix Studio](/studio/general) and allows you to disable Studio for the app project. If you are not using Studio for your app project, disabling it will make committing and updating faster. You can open the **Branch Line Manager** in the Studio Pro landing page (via **Version Control** > **Manage Branch Lines**)  without opening an app project, and in this way, you can use this new feature for all the Mendix versions that support [collaborative development](/refguide/collaborative-development).
* We introduced a new type of parameter you can use to pass a string template into a Java action called [String template](/refguide/java-actions#string-template-type).
* The [layout grid](/refguide/layout-grid) widget now supports [Bootstrap 4 features](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.4/layout/overview/), such as columns that evenly divide the available space of the row or fit their width to content. This update also removes the constraint that the weight of all the columns in a row must add up to 12. Note that the new layout grid is accessible only if your app project has [Atlas UI Resources](https://appstore.home.mendix.com/link/app/104730/) version 2.4.0 or above.
* The layout grid has proven itself to be a handy widget for organizing elements in web apps, so we have made it (with all of its features) available for native pages as well. Note that the layout grid is only available for native pages if your app project has [Atlas UI Resources](https://appstore.home.mendix.com/link/app/104730/) version 2.4.0 or above.

### Improvements

* Pluggable widgets now can be used to preview or download files with the help of a new file property where you are asked to configure an entity path to a file document.
* Making changes to an image collection while your app is running no longer requires a full restart of the app.
* The return type of a microflow/nanoflow will now be copied and used when pasting an end event into another microflow/nanoflow that does not have an end event or where the end event is set to **Nothing**. This makes copying and pasting parts of microflows/nanoflows a bit easier.
* We rebuilt the [Toolbox](/refguide/view-menu#toolbox) to give it the same look and feel as the new [Project Explorer](/refguide/project-explorer). **Filter** highlighting now works in the Toolbox, and no tools are shown when the current document is not editable. Also, we made some improvements in the user experience when you drag a tool from the Toolbox onto an editor, such as enabling dropping the tool regardless of which editor is active, which did not always work when multiple editors were open side by side. Dropping a tool into an editor now makes it active, and you can immediately undo this action with the keyboard shortcut <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Z</kbd>. In addition, error messages are only shown when needed in the bottom-left status bar (which normally says "Ready"), and the correct mouse pointer is shown while you drag a tool. Should you find any issues, you can switch back to the old version of the **Toolbox** via **Edit** > **Preferences** > [New features](/refguide/preferences-dialog#new-features).
* We moved all menu items relating to version control to their own menu called **Version Control**, as these items deserved their own menu.
* We improved the query difference warnings so that identical warnings are logged only once per instance of Mendix Runtime.
* We have improved the startup performance of [offline apps](/refguide/offline-first). Normally, an offline app syncs automatically on startup when it detects a new deployment has been made to Mendix Runtime. This is often not necessary, because the changes that come with a new deployment may not contain changes to the domain model. This process is now optimized, and offline apps will sync when a new Mendix version has been deployed or a domain model change used from an offline profile is detected.
* We upgraded the Apache Commons Codec *.jar* (which is a runtime depencency) from version 1.12 to 1.13.
* [Call REST service](/refguide/call-rest-action) and [Call web service](/refguide/call-web-service-action) actions now have a timeout of `300` seconds by default. You can still customize this however you like.
* In [published OData services](/refguide/published-odata-services), you can now provide a (public) summary and description for attributes and navigation properties. These are added to the service's metadata.
* We are now doing stricter checks on the parameters passed to `Core.execute` methods.
* We now provide a more meaningful error message when a sub-microflow in a read-only module is [extracted](/howto/logic-business-rules/extract-and-use-sub-microflows).
* The [aggregate list](/refguide/aggregate-list) microflow action will have an output variable of type decimal instead of float when the **Average** function is used.

### Fixes

* We fixed the `NotSupportException` that was thrown when `currentUser` was accessed in an expression. (Ticket 92387)
* We fixed an issue with [many-to-many associations](/refguide/associations#types) (where both objects refer to each other) that caused an association to not be persisted when the associated object was committed instead of the associating object. This error also appeared randomly when the association change was committed in a subsequent request from the client. (Ticket 89553)
* We fixed an issue problem where fields on a form were cleared when a validation error occurred. (Ticket 90631)
* We fixed an issue on native mobile apps where text boxes ended up underneath the keyboard on iOS. An [upgrade and release of your native app](/refguide/native-builder#sync-your-repository) is required.

### Known Issues

* Retrieving objects through one-to-one associations in [hybrid offline](/refguide/navigation#hybrid-profiles) apps can cause errors. (Tickets 92757, 92765)
* MySQL 8.0 cannot be used with the default authentication plugin as of this moment. Mendix uses the open-source [MariaDB](https://mariadb.com/) driver to connect, which has not yet added support. We will include the updated driver as soon as it is [released](https://jira.mariadb.org/browse/CONJ-663). To resolve this issue, you may consider using the [previous default plugin](https://mysqlserverteam.com/upgrading-to-mysql-8-0-default-authentication-plugin-considerations/) until the driver has been updated.
* The first deployment of an app project with a native mobile profile takes approximately one minute longer than usual, as the first deployment needs to build up a cache. On consecutive deployments, this time is reduced.
