---
title: "9.2"
parent: "9"
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro version 9.2 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
#When updating, remember to update the Latest Mendix Releases file
#KI: "When Studio Pro is displayed" - DML-1866
#KI: "When you update a consumed OData service" - DML-949
#KI: "In the Properties pane" - SPX-2025
#KI: "It is not possible to use" - SPX-2036
#KI: "It is not possible to close" - CTRL-1614
#KI: "It is not possible to switch" - CTRL-1655
---

## 9.2.0 {#920}

**Release date: May 25th, 2021**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "9.2.0" %}}

### New Features

* We added new notification popups when running and publishing apps from Studio Pro.
* We added a badge to the Performance Bot dock to show the number of recommendations.
* We implemented the functionality to revert committed changes for Git projects as well.
* We added a feature to the call rest action. When modeling form data request, you can now specify http headers for the parts
* Added 'isSyncing()' client expression function to check if there is synchronization in progress.

### Improvements

* We added support for the languages: Amharic, Ethiopia; Armenian, Armenia; Dari, Afghanistan; Farsi, Iran; Farsi, Tajikistan; Mongolian, Mongolia; Nepali, Nepal; Pashto, Afghanistan; Somali, Somalia; Swahili, Kenya; Swahili, Rwanda; Swahili, Tanzania; Swahili, Uganda; Tagalog, Philippines; Urdu, Pakistan; Urdu, India. (Tickets 108550, 116074)
* We added quick navigation from menu widget to navigation document. This is based on [an idea from Fabian Recktenwald](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas/678) submitted to [the Mendix Idea Forum](https://forum.mendixcloud.com/link/ideas). Thanks, Fabian!
* We added qualification "Note: only apply if your use case meets the one described in the documentation." to the popup text of Performance Bot MXP003 and MXP007 recommendations
* We prevented unnecessary calls from domain model editor.
* We improved performance when performing purely visual changes such as dragging entities or microflow activities.
* We implemented performance optimizations of Logic Bot when used with large projects.
* We prevented ghost indicator overlapping connection points regarding Logic Bot indicator in microflow editor.
* We improved Performance Bot recommendation MXP007 by limiting it only to attribute types that may benefit from adding an index.
* We added support to preview any of the web-based navigation profiles on an actual device.
* You can now upload a local app to your private Git repository even if it already has content (e.g. README files), as long as there are no conflicts.
* We introduced an option to allow users to decide when the screen reader should announces a form input widget as required. (Ticket 104150)
* We made security checks performed when associating objects, more consistent.
  Previously, in some cases, creating associations to inaccessible objects was permitted.
  Now, it's not allowed. The custom runtime setting `com.mendix.core.StrictReferenceChecks`
  can be set to `false` to restore old behavior.
* When a pluggable widget explicitly requests no items from [`ListValue`](https://docs.mendix.com/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/client-apis-for-pluggable-widgets#listvalue) passed to it by calling `setLimit(0)`, we will avoid triggering a network request for the underlying [datasource](https://docs.mendix.com/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/property-types-pluggable-widgets#datasource). Using this mechanism pluggable widgets can build lazy loading features - do not fetch data until some condition is met.
* You can now use Database Source for [selectable objects of input reference set selector](https://docs.mendix.com/refguide/input-reference-set-selector#selectable-objects). 
* We simplified the Logic Bot suggestion point to improve the user experience and to reduce performance overhead.
* You can save your user credentials for Git private servers permanently, just tick "Yes" radio button in "Sign In" dialog. The credentials stored are never expired, but might be removed at the first unsuccessful connection attempt, so that you'll need to re-enter them again.
* We upgraded Studio Pro dependencies Microsoft.OData.Edm and Microsoft.OData.Core from 4.6.1 to 4.8.3
* We removed the obsolete project theme settings.
* We now assign default caption and workflow name for you, so it's easier to keep them in sync with the document name.
* We introduced extra runtime checks for `Complete task` action that prevents completion of tasks in invalid states.
* We enabled `owner`, `changedDate`, `changedBy`, `createdDate` attributes on `WorkflowContext` entity.
* We now prevent starting a workflow using `Call Workflow` if it's workflow context entity is not committed.

### Fixes

* Fixed an issue where the page title would be incorrect when the language was changed before reloading. (Ticket 118664)
* We fixed an issue with taskbar icon not blinking when the breakpoint is hit while debugging the app. (Ticket 120326)
* Fixed an issue where running an offline-first app in a cluster could produce warnings when trying to remove a non-existent session on another node. (Ticket 108018)
* We fixed MXP006 recommendation from Performance Bot: MF to NF should NOT allow call from Grid Action Button
* Fixed an error when a conditional editability expression references a non-existent attribute when the widget is non-editable due to its parent container (e.g. list view/data view) (Ticket 120665)
* We now additionally export documentation for Java actions, Java Script actions and Nanoflows. (Ticket 101787)
* We fixed an issue where Ctrl + Enter key combination did not close the dialog in certain cases. (Tickets 116222, 120182)
* A change to a Page should ultimately trigger a Logic Bot update (context change)
* We fixed an issue in the domain model where an error dialog would be shown when exposing an entity as an OData resource
* We fixed an issue where selecting an icon using keyboard was not possible after filtering (Ticket 104249)
* We fixed an issue where the user would see an error message when pressing Shift + Enter at the sign in screen. This key combination made the browser control attempt to open a new browser window, and that failed. Now Shift + Enter does not lead to errors anymore (Ticket 119314).
* Fixed issue where resolve using mine does not hide the (orange) conflict status bar in editor tabs and the editor is not reopened when conflict resolution is active and resolve whole document using mine is used
* We fixed a permissions issue with file deletion. (ticket 116230)
* The File manager widget when configured to Upload Type no longer causes an unexpected error when there are validation errors in certain scenarios. (Tickets #120116)
* We fixed an issue with reference selector widget containing conditional editability where it could trigger a microflow or database data retrieval twice. (Ticket 104322)
* We fixed an issue while changing the attribute type between String and Number in the TextBox widget which was showing the validations from the previous selection in Studio Pro.
* We fixed an issue where a readonly attribute could be shown as writable when using specializations. (Ticket 111341)
* In some scenarios loading bar was not getting dismissed. This is now fixed. (Ticket 116559)
* In some situations the 'Update' action in the 'Update widgets' tools didn't update the widget, although it was showing that it has the latest version in the overview. This has been fixed.
* When an XPath constraint used the `%CurrentObject%` token in a nested constraint on a path over multiple associations this resulted in an error in the client. (Ticket 119134)
* We fixed an issue where users could not drag an entity from the Data Hub pane to the domain model editor when Studio Pro was displayed on a secondary screen. Now you can do that again.
* We resolved an error that could occur when installing Studio Pro, because an additional file could not be downloaded.
* We Fixed the full-screen not available issue.
* We fixed an issue in published OData services in Studio Pro, where adding an entity with owner or changedby associations to a service that has the user entity published would result in an exception.
* We fixed an issue when a microflow contains a [Show Page Activity](https://docs.mendix.com/refguide/show-page) and is called from a nanoflow on pages that are accessible through an offline profile. (Tickets 119266)
* We fixed an issue where exporting a module without themesource folder resulted in an exception.
* We fixed an issue where the Buddhist calendar would not work properly in Android Mobile browsers. Now Android Mobile browsers will show Mendix calendar instead of Native calendar.

### Known Issues

* When Studio Pro is displayed on a secondary screen, it is currently not possible to select an entity from the [Data Hub pane](/refguide/data-hub-pane) and drag it to the domain model editor.
	* Workaround: On the primary screen this issue does not appear, so move Studio Pro to your primary screen to perform this action.
* When you update a [consumed OData service](/refguide/consumed-odata-service) with a new version from [Mendix Data Hub](/data-hub/) but close the document without saving, the blue arrow icon will no longer be shown to notify you about the available update for that service.
	* Workaround: Closing your app and opening it again fixes this issue.
* In the **Properties** pane, you cannot copy, paste, or delete using keyboard shortcuts.
	* Workaround: Perform the same operation using your mouse and the context menu.
* It is not possible to use <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Tab</kbd> to switch between open tabs unless you have already selected a tab.
	* Workaround: Select a tab with your mouse and then use the key combination.
* It is not possible to close pop-up windows by using <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Enter</kbd>.
	* Workaround: Close pop-up windows with your mouse.
* It is not possible to switch Studio Pro to [Full Screen](/refguide/view-menu#full-screen) mode.


