---
title: "9.6"
parent: "9"
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro version 9.6 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
#When updating, remember to update the Latest Mendix Releases file
#KI: "When you update a consumed OData service" - DML-949
#KI: "In the Properties pane" - SPX-2102 (verify when done)
---

{{% alert type="info" %}}
This is the preferred [MTS](lts-mts#mts) release for apps in production.
{{% /alert %}}

## 9.6.4 {#964}

**Release date: December 17th, 2021**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "9.6.4" %}}

### Improvements

* We improved the generated metadata of [published OData services](/refguide/published-odata-services). When all navigation properties are updatable, the **NonUpdatableNavigationProperties** capability is now omitted instead of specifying it as an empty collection.
* We updated the regions for [Language Settings](/refguide/language-settings).

### Fixes

* We upgraded the Cloud Foundry client (`mx-cf-client`) used to deploy Mendix applications from Mendix Studio Pro to compromised Cloud Foundry services by updating Apache Log4j libraries to 2.16.0, which addresses [CVE-2021-44228 and CVE-2021-45046](https://cert-portal.siemens.com/productcert/pdf/ssa-714170.pdf).
* <a name="5169"></a>We fixed three issues in the generated metadata of published OData services. Due to these changes, previous Studio Pro versions as well as versions [9.7.x](9.7) and [9.8.0](9.8#980) are not able to read metadata produced by this Studio Pro version. The runtime is unaffected. When updating the contract of a [consumed OData service](/refguide/consumed-odata-services), upgrading to version [9.6.4](9.6#964), [9.8.1](9.8#981), or 9.9.0 or later is recommended. These are the three fixes:
	* `NonUpdatable(Navigation)Properties` are now specified as a collection of `(Navigation)PropertyPath` (and not as a collection of String).
	* `UpdateMethod` is now specified as an Enum value (and not as an Int).
	* `SupportedFormats` is now a collection of String (and not a simple String)
* We fixed an issue where the [Auto Load More](/appstore/widgets/auto-load-more) widget did not work as expected together with a list view. (Ticket 132953)
* We fixed an issue that occurred with a reference selector that set a reference to an uncommitted object where that object could not be retrieved over association in a microflow. (Tickets 131593, 133345, 134576, 135463, 137455)
* We fixed an issue that occurred when reading the metadata of a consumed OData service where (navigation) properties marked as non-updatable in the metadata appeared to be updatable.
* We fixed an issue in [published OData services](/refguide/published-odata-services) that occurred while generating metadata XML. The `Name` property in the `EntityContainer` section can no longer contain a slash (`/`).
* When you open an app from a network path or from a drive in a Mac (both of which will contain double backslashes (`\\`) in the beginning of the file path), a warning is shown to tell you about potential issues that might cause and asks if you wants to proceed anyway.
* We fixed a bug where dialog boxes increased in height after an edit was done on the dialog box itself when the app was version-controlled.

### Deprecations

* Starting with version 9.6.6, we will drop support for DB2 version 11.1.

### Known Issues

* When you update a [consumed OData service](/refguide/consumed-odata-service) with a new version from [Mendix Data Hub](/data-hub/) but close the document without saving, the blue arrow icon will no longer be shown to notify you about the available update for that service.
	* Workaround: Closing your app and opening it again fixes this issue.
* In the **Properties** pane, you cannot copy, paste, or delete using keyboard shortcuts.
	* Workaround: Perform the same operation using your mouse and the context menu.

## 9.6.3 {#963}

**Release date: December 2nd, 2021**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "9.6.3" %}}

### New Features

* We added support for PostgreSQL 14.

### Improvements

* [MxAssist Logic Bot](/refguide/mx-assist-logic-bot) now triggers notifications so you can be notified about improvements.
* Ordering by associated attribute now also works in DB2 and SAP HANA and thereby in all supported databases.
* This release includes a [new version](https://www.mendix.com/blog/mendix-mxassist-logic-bot-upgrade/) of [the MxAssist Logic Bot](/refguide/mx-assist-logic-bot) with major improvements in the AI model, UI and UX, and performance! Check out these details:
    * The AI model has been re-trained with a fresh and substantially bigger dataset that includes more context-related features, microflow actions, and parameters. These have improved the recommendation accuracy, especially the top (first) recommendation.
    * The user interface has been completely redesigned with better integration and interaction with the microflow editor UI to avoid any overlaps. In addition, new controls and interfaces are introduced to give more control to the users. 
    * The user interface responsiveness and interaction is now faster thanks to several performance optimizations that have reduced server calls by 92% and user CPU usage by 35% on average. The Logic Bot microservice is also deployed in more regions to reduce network latency.

### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where a background application window was focused after a notification disappeared. (Ticket 125320)
* We fixed an issue in the runtime of [published OData services](/refguide/published-odata-services) where the microflow of an exposed virtual attribute retrieved objects by association and that list was empty. (Ticket 128843)
* We added several document types to the export feature available via [App Explorer](/refguide/project-explorer) > **App** > **Export documentation**: [module roles](/refguide/module-security#module-role), [pages](/refguide/pages), [constants](/refguide/constants), [import mappings](/refguide/import-mappings) and [export mappings](/refguide/export-mappings), [consumed web services](/refguide/consumed-web-services) and [published web services](/refguide/published-web-services), [snippets](/refguide/snippet), and [scheduled events](/refguide/scheduled-events). (Ticket 129854)
* We fixed an issue where Mendix Runtime did not start after a module containing a remote entity was replaced. (Ticket 131331)
* We fixed an error with the XPath constraints of the `[$object/flag]` form when `$object` is empty. (Ticket 132531)
* We fixed an issue where resuming Free Apps failed. (Ticket 132915)
* We fixed an issue that occurred with the [data grid](/refguide/data-grid) inline editor while using non-persistable entities. (Ticket 133700)
* We fixed an issue where the [Synchronize](/refguide/synchronize) nanoflow action with the **Unsynchronized objects** mode did not update the runtime database for objects that had been created on the device and synchronized with the runtime in the same session. (Ticket 133910)
* We fixed an issue in the App Explorer where the active item selection border was not displayed when all nodes were expanded. (Ticket 134616)
* We fixed an issue where it was not possible to paste when inline-editing a caption in the page editor's **Structure mode**. (Ticket 134741)
* We fixed an exception that occurred when starting apps with specific app file sizes. (Ticket 135034)
* We fixed an issue in the app selector where version-controlled apps that were not checked out locally were displayed as **Unversioned** and had a default SVN icon (even when those apps were under the Git version control system).
* We fixed another issue in the app selector so branches are ordered with the main branch displayed first.
* We fixed an issue with resizing dialog boxes that contain expression editors. Now, these editors scale according to the size of the dialog box.
* When using DB2, the `DATEDIFF` OQL function now correctly returns negative values where applicable.
* We fixed the functionality of selecting a **Data Type** item via keyboard shortcuts.
* We fixed an issue where was possible to select all tree items using <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>A</kbd>.
* We fixed a bug with native apps where top-level exceptions did not trigger the fatal error handler correctly when they happened early in the startup process.

### Known Issues

* Registration of updatable OData resources in the Data Hub Catalog does not work when the [Updatable (write)](/refguide/published-odata-resource#capabilities) capability is enabled for a published OData service.
	* Fixed in [9.6.4](#5169) and [9.8.1](9.8#5169).
* When you update a [consumed OData service](/refguide/consumed-odata-service) with a new version from [Mendix Data Hub](/data-hub/) but close the document without saving, the blue arrow icon will no longer be shown to notify you about the available update for that service.
	* Workaround: Closing your app and opening it again fixes this issue.
* In the **Properties** pane, you cannot copy, paste, or delete using keyboard shortcuts.
	* Workaround: Perform the same operation using your mouse and the context menu.

## 9.6.2 {#962}

**Release date: November 3rd, 2021**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "9.6.2" %}}

### Improvements

* We added an **Expand All** button to the toolbar of the [Toolbox](/refguide/view-menu#toolbox) in the tile view.
* We reorganized the toolbars of the [App Explorer](/refguide/project-explorer), [Data Hub pane](/refguide/data-hub-pane), [Connector](/refguide/view-menu#connector), **Toolbox**, and selector dialog boxes to save more vertical screen space for the content.
* We upgraded the SVG library to version 3.3.0.

### Fixes

* We fixed [CVE-2021-42026](/releasenotes/security-advisories#42026) and [CVE-2021-42025](/releasenotes/security-advisories#42025).
* We fixed an issue where the expand button was sometimes displayed in the **Select Entity** dialog box for an entity without another associated entity. (Ticket 127417).
* We fixed an issue where imported SVG images appeared in the black color. (Ticket 130343)
* We fixed an issue where invalid SVG files in the image collection crashed Studio Pro while publishing an app. (Ticket 131378)
* We fixed the text color of folders in the tree view of various menus (like App Explorer) that appears when you are moving the folders to a new location.
* We fixed an issue with the selected item in App Explorer that occurred when you start an app.
* We fixed an issue in the Toolbox where the search box retained its former value after switching the active document or the view mode.

### Known Issues

* When you update a [consumed OData service](/refguide/consumed-odata-service) with a new version from [Mendix Data Hub](/data-hub/) but close the document without saving, the blue arrow icon will no longer be shown to notify you about the available update for that service.
	* Workaround: Closing your app and opening it again fixes this issue.
* In the **Properties** pane, you cannot copy, paste, or delete using keyboard shortcuts.
	* Workaround: Perform the same operation using your mouse and the context menu.

## 9.6.1 {#961}

**Release date: October 19th, 2021**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "9.6.1" %}}

### Fixes

* We fixed [CVE-2021-42015](/releasenotes/security-advisories#42015). (Ticket 126829)
* <a name="1854"></a>We fixed a [known issue](#ki-1854) in the access rule dialog box where the selected access rights were lost when scrolling through the list. (Tickets 131581, 131605, 131961, 131976, 132074, 132080)
* <a name="1292"></a>We fixed a [known issue](#ki-1292) where the main line of a Git project was incorrectly determined. This also fixes the branch switching functionality in Branch Line Manager.
* <a name="updatable"></a>We fixed a [known issue](#ki-updatable) that occurred when publishing updatable OData resources. Clients could use these to update other objects that had some of the the same attributes, but only when the current user had all the privileges to do so.
* We fixed an issue where a list view failed if attributes of an associated entity were retrieved and two objects of the main entity were linked to the same object of that associated entity. (Ticket 126507)
* We fixed an issue where selecting a page of the [reference selector](/refguide/reference-selector) did not work properly for specialized entities when the user had no access to the generalized entity. (Ticket 128755)
* We fixed an issue that occurred when retrieving data for a data view listening to a list view. (Ticket 129494)
* We fixed an issue where there was a significant lag in Studio Pro when a background error check was running. (Tickets 131412, 131591)
* We fixed an issue where database synchronization failed when migrating or copying a database from a Studio Pro version between 8.7 and 8.12 to a Studio Pro 9 version.
* We resolved some issues with button focus and the handling of the <kbd>Tab</kbd> key in the new [Open App](/refguide/open-app-dialog) dialog box.
* We improved the branch line names that are displayed in the title bar and recent apps list.
* We fixed an issue where the Branch Line Manager incorrectly showed the branch lines of an uninitialized app.
* We fixed an issue where Studio Pro hung when using [Find](/refguide/find-and-find-advanced) then subsequently **Find Advanced**.

### Breaking Changes

* It is not possible to create and delete branches for [Team Server Git](/refguide/preferences-dialog#git) version apps downloaded in Studio Pro [9.6.0](#960). You are also not able to see information about Mendix Studio collaboration in the Studio Pro UI.
	* Workaround: Re-download the app using Studio Pro 9.6.1 or above.

### Known Issues

* When you update a [consumed OData service](/refguide/consumed-odata-service) with a new version from [Mendix Data Hub](/data-hub/) but close the document without saving, the blue arrow icon will no longer be shown to notify you about the available update for that service.
	* Workaround: Closing your app and opening it again fixes this issue.
* In the **Properties** pane, you cannot copy, paste, or delete using keyboard shortcuts.
	* Workaround: Perform the same operation using your mouse and the context menu.

## 9.6.0 {#960}

**Release date: September 28th, 2021**

{{% modelerdownloadlink "9.6.0" %}}

{{% alert type="info" %}}
For more information on this release, see the [Release 9.6 – Makes Your Mendix World Spin](https://www.mendix.com/blog/release-9-6-makes-your-mendix-world-spin/) blog post.
{{% /alert %}}

### New Features

* We have made the [Change workflow state](/refguide/change-workflow-state) microflow activity available, which allows you to add, abort, restart, continue, pause, and resume actions for a [workflow](/refguide/workflows) and control workflow instances.

* As of this release, it is possible to start apps on the Git edition of the Team Server through Studio Pro. For more information on how to enable this feature, see [Preferences](/refguide/preferences-dialog#new-features). This feature is currently in [Beta](/releasenotes/beta-features/).

#### Updated Studio Pro Look & Feel

We are continuously improving your Studio Pro experience, and we made a big step with version [9.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.0) to modernize the UI. This release contains further major improvements.

When you start Studio Pro, there is a new UI to make selecting and managing your versions more intuitive and simpler. We also have a redesigned place for your apps.

Next to that, we did a full overhaul of the [Toolbox](/refguide/view-menu#toolbox). Besides the current list view to display widgets, microflow actions, and other items, there is now a tile view which shows larger icons. This makes it easier to recognize the actions and adds more consistency with [Mendix Studio](/studio/). We have also revised the widget categories of the **Toolbox** in the page editor, removing the suffix "widgets" and aligning the naming with Mendix Studio. Finally, for building blocks, the tile view will show a preview of the building block, which gives a better impression of it. In your **Toolbox**, you can easily switch between the list view and the tile view based on your preference.

Finally, we have redesigned the [App Explorer](/refguide/project-explorer) with a new visual hierarchy that will help you find your documents even faster and that provides a modern and consistent look and feel.

####  OData & Data Hub 

When you publish an [OData service](/refguide/published-odata-services), you can now indicate that you allow clients to update attributes.

When you use [external entities](/refguide/external-entities) to consume an OData service, you can now change attribute values and send those values to the publishing service. This works for published OData services that support updates.

The [Data Hub pane](/refguide/data-hub-pane) now shows for every entity which CRUD (creatable, readable, updatable, deletable) capabilities the entity supports. It will mark a capability as highlighted when the combination of the data source and Studio Pro supports it. As of this version, that means readable and updatable, but we will add more in upcoming releases.

#### Custom Metrics

The [Core.Metrics API](/refguide/metrics) and corresponding [microflow activities](/refguide/metrics-activities) are now available.

Whether you want to measure usage of parts of your app or go as far as implementing usage-based invoicing, now you can! Set up incrementing counters or use scheduled events for a recurring absolute count and keep track with minimum effort.

Data for your custom metrics can be retrieved from [Micrometer](https://micrometer.io/docs/), a metrics instrumentation library, and imported into various tools such as Datadog or Prometheus. Set up filters for different registries to ensure specific data ends up in the right place.

### Improvements

* We have improved the speed of garbage collection by up to 100x in some cases. (Ticket 125380)
* You can now use the [tab container](/refguide/tab-container) widget inside a [containment or repeatable containment](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/pluggable-widgets-property-types#widgets) pluggable widget.
* You can now drag a microflow from the **App Explorer** into the editor and it will create a new system task automatically.
* We renamed the **Image** and **Image Viewer** core widgets to [Static Image](/refguide/image) and [Dynamic Image](/refguide/image-viewer), respectively.
* We fixed an issue in the runtime of a [publised REST service](/refguide/published-rest-services) where an unparsable header resulted in a "500 internal server" error. It now returns a "400 bad request" error.
* You can now define an error handler microflow for [consumed OData services](/refguide/consumed-odata-services). When the service returns a failure or does not return a response at all, this microflow decides which message to show the user.
* We now show which services are validated in the [Data Hub pane](/refguide/data-hub-pane). This corresponds to the services that are marked as validated in the [Data Hub Catalog](/data-hub/data-hub-catalog/).
* We now have a redesigned tree style that is already active in the **App Explorer**, **Toolbox**, [consumed web service](/refguide/consumed-web-service) page, and general selectors.
* We now execute queued tasks in a context equivalent to the one in which they were created. Executing in the system context is deprecated, and a one-way project setting has been introduced for this.
* We added the `reload()` method to the [List Values API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/pluggable-widgets-client-apis-list-values#listvalue-reload) to fetch the underlying data source again.
* We now show an icon on microflow and Java action calls when they run in the background.

### Fixes

* <a name="2036"></a>We fixed a [known issue](9.0#ki-2036) where you could not use <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Tab</kbd> to switch between open tabs unless you had already selected a tab.
* <a name="315"></a>We fixed a [known issue](9.3#ki-315) with the exporting of user metrics that resulted in the [User Accounts and Login Sessions](/developerportal/operate/trends-v4#Trends-appmxruntimesessions) graph being empty for apps deployed to the Mendix Cloud.
* We fixed an issue in the Marketplace where the **Show** filter setting was not taken into account when searching. (Ticket 93566)
* We fixed a bug in native mobile where list views with on-click events required two taps to trigger the event when the keyboard was visible. (Ticket 120695)
* We fixed a NullPointerException that occurred when the same project MDA was deployed with reduced permissions in SQL Sserver. (Ticket 122465)
* We removed the option to use the Japanese (Imperial calendar) language in new apps, as it was not supported by our dates library. (Ticket 123609)
* We fixed an issue where opening the edit dialog box for a [cross-module association](/refguide/associations#creating) threw an error when one of the associated entities was deleted. (Ticket 127847)
* We fixed an issue that occurred on a reference selector that used a microflow for the selectable objects and contained an explicit parameter mapping to a page variable. (Ticket 128047)
* We fixed the failing synchronization that occurred when a one-to-one or many-to-one association was renamed to an existing association that was removed. (Ticket 128052)
* We fixed an issue where calling a microflow failed if `$currentUser/System.owner` was used in an expression. (Tickets 128550, 128870)
* We fixed an issue where a list view widget did not update the listening widgets when the item selection changed through key presses. (Ticket 129128)
* We fixed an issue in the JSON exporter where a "null" string was exported as a JSON null value. (Ticket 129742)
* We fixed an issue where you could not commit because of a security error. (Ticket 129493, 129605, 129902)
* The main line in the [Branch Line Manager](/refguide/branch-line-manager-dialog) dialog box is now always shown. (Ticket 132361)
* We fixed an issue where the [Call microflow](/refguide/call-microflow) task in the workflow editor lost values when a new parameter was added to the underlying microflow.
* We fixed an issue where a role-based conditional visibility was ignored for the tabs of the [tab container](/refguide/tab-container) widget in native apps.
* We fixed an issue where adding an association to an external entity from the **Association** tab of that entity gave an error message.
* We fixed an issue where [MxAssist Logic Bot](/refguide/mx-assist-studio-pro) displayed slightly stale recommendations if calls to a microflow were recently added or removed from another microflow.
* We fixed an issue in the MXP006 [MxAssist Performance Bot](/refguide/mx-assist-performance-bot) recommendation to convert a microflow to a nanoflow in which the microflow being converted *directly* used a variable that was not available when converted to a nanoflow.
* We fixed a crash that occurred when opening an uninitialized app from the [Most Recent](/developerportal/#my-apps) apps list.
* We fixed an issue with range validations in which a bound was based on an attribute. If either the attribute or the range bound attribute was of type Decimal and the other was of a different numeric type, the validation always failed.

### Breaking Changes

#### Modifications to the Workflow Data Model

We introduced workflows as a Beta feature in Studio Pro [9.0](9.0) and have received great feedback from our community. You were eager to test it out and provide us with your point of view on how to further improve the functionality, and we have made improvements in this release. For information on how to migrate the existing apps with workflows, see [Migrate Workflow Apps to Mendix 9.6](/refguide/workflow-beta-migration).

##### System Module Changes

* **WorkflowInstance** entity is renamed to **Workflow**.
* **WorkflowTaskDefinition** is renamed to **WorkflowUserTaskDefinition**.
* All related associations are renamed.
* **WorkflowAdministrator** user role is removed.
* The **WorkflowContext**, **SystemTask**, **WorkflowTaskInstance**, and **WorkflowVersion** entities are removed.
* You are now able to create specializations of the **Workflow** and **WorkflowUserTask** entities.

##### Workflow Design Changes

* Each **Workflow** now requires its own specialization of the **Workflow** entity.
* **Workflow context** is now a regular entity that has to be associated to the **Workflow** entity.
* Each user task now requires its own specialization of the **WorkflowUserTask** entity.
* Security for the **Workflow** and **WorkflowUserTask** entities are now configured at the entity level.

### Deprecations

* We will drop support for [PostgreSQL 9.6](/refguide/system-requirements#databases) after Studio Pro version 9.8. The exact date will be coordinated with migration of our [Mendix Cloud](/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy) environment to a newer version of PostgreSQL.

### Known Issues

* <a name="ki-1854"></a>When you update a [consumed OData service](/refguide/consumed-odata-service) with a new version from [Mendix Data Hub](/data-hub/) but close the document without saving, the blue arrow icon will no longer be shown to notify you about the available update for that service.
	* Fixed in [9.6.1](#1854)
* <a name="ki-1292"></a>In the **Properties** pane, you cannot copy, paste, or delete using keyboard shortcuts.
	* Fixed in [9.6.1](#1292).
* <a name="ki-updatable"></a>There is an issue with the [updatable (write) capability](/refguide/published-odata-resource#capabilities) in published OData services that allows clients to change the attribute values of other entities if they know the IDs of the objects and their credentials give them entity access.
	* Fixed in [9.6.1](#updatable).
* The main line is incorrectly detected when a branch other than the default branch is downloaded. This bug also broke the check to determine if a branch was already present on disk, causing it to be re-downloaded from the version control server instead of being opened when switching branches in the **Branch Line Manager**.
* When you are configuring an access rule and you scroll or resize the dialog box, the selected values in the drop-down list in the grid do not show the selected text anymore, although the the values are still selected.
