---
title: "2.5"
space: "Release Notes"
parent: "2"
---

## 2.5.8

### Improvements

* Ticket 9664: Added option to file manager and image uploader widgets to restrict the allowed file extensions.
* Ticket 9850: Added advanced find feature that searches for microflows of a specified size.
* Ticket 10092: Improved microflow debug and trace logging.
* Ticket 9662: Show customizable error message when invalid image was uploaded (without trace information).
* Ticket 9650: Determine whether to output date and/or time component for CSV exports of DateTime columns
* Ticket 10149: Added FileID as an index to the FileDocument entity.

### Fixes

* Ticket 9584: Added option to rename images whose name is already in use when moving to another module.
* Ticket 9663: Improved error message for missing constant value
* Ticket 10169: Set created date for objects created in an xml import triggered by a scheduled event.
* Ticket 9631: Select content of input mask on focus
* Ticket 9629: Removing newlines from DataGrid content
* Ticket 10003: Improved logging for failed file upload
* Ticket 10252: NOT expression was missing in PostgreSQL SQL query when using the NOT and starts-with expressions combined.
* Tickets 9820, 9878: Added check to detect fully merged rows and columns in document templates. Such rows and columns would lead to errors when generating PDF documents.
* Ticket 10067: Fixed validation of manually entered Arabic dates
* Ticket 9567: Removed unnecessary warning when deleting an object with a before delete event
* Ticket 9438: Initialize input mask when shown by conditional formatting
* Ticket 9755: Tabs showing validations of DataViewList
* Ticket 9911: Setting correct content id to widgets in Template Grid
* Ticket 9907: FileDocument.HasContents will be set to true when there are really files on disk when migrating from 2.4 to 2.5 or higher.
* Ticket 9633: Do not ask to clear reference when '.' is pressed in Chrome

## 2.5.7

### 2.5.7.1

#### Improvements

* Ticket 8969: Added to Mendix Runtime libraries folder: 64 bit version of Microsoft SQL Server authentication library

#### Fixes

* Ticket 9580: Fixed Excel export button (introduced in 2.5.7)
* Ticket 8919: Allow empty response messages for document-style web service operations.
* Ticket 8965: Added option to use excel-compatible date format when exporting CSV
* Ticket 9025: Fixed nullpointer exception when an existing (subtype of a) filedocument has been changed while doing an import but the Content field was not changed.
* Ticket 8961: Fixed: Order of parameters in client translate API
* Ticket 9039: Security improvements
* Ticket 9029: Wrong Character in Webservice request

### 2.5.7.0

#### Improvements

* Ticket 8969: Added to Mendix Runtime libraries folder: 64 bit version of Microsoft SQL Server authentication library

#### Fixes

* Ticket 8919: Allow empty response messages for document-style web service operations.
* Ticket 8965: Added option to use excel-compatible date format when exporting CSV
* Ticket 9025: Fixed nullpointer exception when an existing (subtype of a) filedocument has been changed while doing an import but the Content field was not changed.
* Ticket 8961: Fixed: Order of parameters in client translate API
* Ticket 9039: Security improvements
* Ticket 9029: Wrong Character in Webservice request

## 2.5.6

### Improvements

* Tickets 6842, 8658: Feature : New option in DataGrid to allow the first row of the initial data to be automatically selected.
* Ticket 8469: FileDocuments with boolean 'DeleteAfterDownload' set to true are now written to a tmp folder (subfolder of files) instead.
* Ticket 8738: Possibility to define a query timeout for client actions. Configuration property ClientQueryTimeout. Timeout in seconds.

#### Web service improvements

* SOAP 1.2 support
* Ticket 8644: Support for MTOM/XOP
    * When calling an imported webservice which requires MTOM, binary data will be sent or received really binary. 
* Ticket 8402: Improved SOAP fault handling
    * If an web service error occurs, SOAP fault information can be read from the microflow variables lastSoapFaultCode, lastSoapFaultReason, lastSoapFaultNode, lastSoapFaultRole and lastSoapFaultDetail. 

### Fixes

* Ticket 8593: Runtime incorrectly checks empty microflow expressions in optional web service request headers
* Ticket 8591: Fixed incorrectly placed parameters in SOAP request.
* Ticket 8802: Fixed incorrect parameters being used in microflows used to get child objects in certain domain-to-xml mappings
* Ticket 2784: Never allow password-hashes to be shown
* Ticket 8369: Fixed ReportChart not accepting zooming parameters
* Ticket 8549: Fixed: date greater than comparison in DataGrid search field
* Ticket 8279: Don't return salted SSHA256 password field when retrieving user data
* Ticket 8595: Added check for inherited types to Domain-to-XML mappings when selecting elements for the mapping.
* Ticket 8804: Fixed document generator multi-threading problem
* Ticket 8872: Fixed: Paths were compared by full namespace uri but the type in the xml could actually contain just the prefix which resulted in false negatives for mapping.
* Ticket 8703: Fixed typo in error message.
* Ticket 7920: Ensure that empty reference selectors in hidden tabs validate properly
* Ticket 8563: Fixed problem where "Error(s) in XPath constraint" would incorrectly be reported.
* Ticket 8886: When using multiple instances of a server, cleanup abandoned sessions regardless of clustermanager when using non-persistent sessions
* Ticket 8553: An exception occurs on database synchronization when an entity is renamed and an AutoNumber attribute is added to this entity.
* Tickets 8600, 8271: CSV/Excel export no longer fails when having no read access but simply leaves field empty
* Ticket 8581: Fixed: default value of DatePicker dropdown when an invalid date is entered
* Ticket 8535: Multiple security certificates can be used for web service requests; user name and password authentication can be done for web services via SSL connections
* Ticket 8569: Prevent Microflows on empty selections from being invoked from views (added UI exception message)
* Tickets 8617, 8621, 8622: Fixed: Usages were not updated when a document was open in edit mode.
* Ticket 8637: Validation feedback is shown very shortly in a specific case
* Ticket 8687: Removed an incorrect sequence insert within the process of removing a derivation on an entity in SQL Server.
* Ticket 8323: Fixed exception during xml mapping when parent entity was null and was used as input parameter for child search microflow.

## 2.5.5

### 2.5.5.1

* We fixed the error that occurred when loading `TabContainer`.

### 2.5.5.0

#### Improvements

* Tickets 8071, 8316: Use JVM system properties to configure proxy servers for webservice calls. See documentation for more details.
* Ticket 7950: Added security checks for using microflows from forms.
* Ticket 7998: Now tables and indexes created by an internal SQL Server component will not be removed anymore on database synchronization.
* Ticket 8070: Added some more log info on startup to show duration of after startup microflow and database synchronization.

#### Fixes

* Ticket 8256: Fixed an error with renaming elements in the domain model.
* Ticket 7648: Fixed: a datepicker in a dataview didn't pick up the custom format settings specified on language level.
* Ticket 8191: Correctly check 'empty' setting in conditional visibility for document generator tables.
* Ticket 8332: XML Export: don't render CDATA tags unless export element is of type String
* Ticket 8003: Fixed: Nullpointer when committing certain references in xml-domain mappings.
* Ticket 7815: Fixed validation issue with right-to-left dates entered manually.
* Ticket 7995: Give user friendly message when uploaded image file format is not supported.
* Ticket 8101: Fixed: rows in the TemplateGrid are forced to start on a new line.
* Ticket 7117: Fixed update behavior when using multiple grid listeners.
* Ticket 8247: Fixed table layout issues (tables, datagrids, template grids).
* Ticket 8261: Allow empty values for enumerations when calling a webservice with an optional parameter.
* Tickets 8066, 8157: Exception in XML-to-Domain mapping without 'changedDate'.
* Ticket 8067: Clarified upload error message.
* Ticket 8182: Now system attributes/associations like changedDate will always be stored when the highest superobject does have enabled them.
* Ticket 8136: Show help texts for custom widgets in the form builder.
* Ticket 8325: Fixed error in Modeler security check.
* Ticket 7900: Now runtime start status will not be broken when the CLR (SQL Server) cannot be enabled.
* Ticket 7863: CSV Export: Added option to add a hint for Excel to indicate which separator to use
* Ticket 8319: Fixed hidden tab being selectable with key navigation.
* Ticket 7931: Fixed: 'Bold' text from Rich Text Editor using <strong> tag is not rendered as bold in document templates.
* Ticket 8087: Fixed webservice return value example in ws-doc page.
* Ticket 8082: Improved exception message when processing corrupt CSS style in a document template.
* Ticket 7989: Fix: BR (linebreak) tags in custom HTML content in document templates.
* Ticket 7916: Changed behaviour: a warning will be added to the log if you have a ScheduledEvent schedule in the past instead of stopping the startup process.
* Ticket 7925: Text in TemplateGrid is selectable now.
* 7914: Fixed reload of Navigator on login.
* Ticket 7985: Added support for XML schema includes.
* Ticket 7999: Fixed: Grid showing associated objects in empty view fetching data
* Ticket 7965: Don't try to parse a microflow expression when it isn't even needed nor checked for validity by the Modeler.
* Tickets 7933, 7937: Resolved conflict between validation updates and microflow instructions to the client.
* Ticket 8226: Commit changed object when unfocusing DataGrid with inline editing.
* Ticket 8312: Fixed: error mapping xml files with elements having more than 100 lines.
* Ticket 8095: Removed redundant scrollbars for nested TabContainer.
* Ticket 7890: Fixed datagrid styling issues in document templates
* Ticket 7954: Fixed error in Modeler that could occur when deleting the last user role.
* Ticket 8054: Fixed: XML Namespace prefixes aren't resolved when referencing other types.
* Ticket 8024: Fixed uploads in firefox 4 and chrome.
* Ticket 8323: Fixed exception during xml mapping when parent entity was null and was used as input parameter for child search microflow.
* Ticket 7788: Fixed check for XPath constraints on drop-down search fields.
* Ticket 8090: Fixed double, unconstrained request for aggregates.
* Ticket 7892: Fixed sticking column headers of DataGrid in IE8.
* Ticket 8268: Disallow the use of the word 'Context' as a name for domain model elements.
