---
title: "7.5"
space: "Release Notes"
parent: "7"
description: "The release notes for Mendix Modeler version 7.5 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
---

## 7.5.0

**Release date: July 12th, 2017**

{% modelerdownloadlink 7.5.0 %}

### Export mappings

We introduced a new way of getting Mendix objects in export mappings: `from parameter`.

This has always been the default (unseen) value for the root element, but it can now be chosen anywhere in the mapping. As a result, the input to an export mapping may be a list of Mendix objects (whereas before, it always had to be a single Mendix object).

### Fixes

* We fixed the ability to use a client certificate for a web or REST service that has a server certificate signed by a non-standard authority. (Tickets 52427, 52937)
* We fixed the default sort order for drop-down search fields in grids to be the selected attribute path. (Ticket 53810)
* We fixed the issue that occurred when a logout from a hybrid app would be stuck with a loader.
* We fixed the exception that occurred during the creation of a web service user when project security was disabled. (Ticket 53128)
* We now populate the **Size** attribute of file documents without commit events. (Ticket 54099)
* We fixed the issue when a redirect from a normal index page to index-rtl (for right-to-left languages) failed.
* We fixed the lifecycle for widgets inside conditionally hidden containers (they were not being destroyed properly, which led to performance issues). (Ticket 53719)
* When a conditionally visible widget was re-displayed, it displayed stale values. We fixed this for you. (Tickets 52466, 53719)
* We fixed downloading FileDocuments (as in, images) from S3 which also broke Mendix Cloud V4. (Ticket 54305)

### Known issues

For known issues in this version, see [Known Issues](known-issues).
