---
title: "Building a Mendix Hybrid Mobile App for Windows Phone"
space: "Mendix 6 How-to's"
category: "Mobile"
tags: []
---

## 1 Introduction
When you want to build a hybrid app package for Windows Phone you probably 
noted this cannot be done in the cloud portal. It can be done by building the
Phonegap Build package yourself.

This how-to will teach you step-by-step how to create a Windows Phone app package.

## 2 Prerequisites
Before starting this how-to, make sure you have the following prerequisites:

* A Mendix App with mobile support running in the Mendix Cloud, either in a Free App or on a licensed cloud node.
* An account for Adobe PhoneGap Build. You can sign up for an account [here](https://build.phonegap.com/plans).

## 3 Building the Windows Phone package

### 3.1 Creating the Phonegap Build package
The template for Phonegap Build can be downloaded [here](./attachments/WP8_Phonegap_Build_Template.zip). We need to change 
some files within the archive, so begin by extracting the archive. There are two files where variables need to be replaced. 
First open the `config.xml` and replace the following variables:
  
  1. {{identifier}} The app identifier which must be unique for you application and this must be reverse-domain name style (e.g. com.yourcompany.yourapp)
  2. {{version}} a major/minor/patch style version for the app, with three numbers, such as 0.0.1
  3. {{name}} The name of the app
  4. {{description}} Description for your app
  
After changing these files the `config.xml` will be something like:
```
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
    <widget xmlns = "http://www.w3.org/ns/widgets"
        xmlns:gap = "http://phonegap.com/ns/1.0"
        id        = "com.mendix.sampleapp"
        version   = "1.0.0" >

    <name>My Sample App</name>

    <description>The Sample WP8 App</description>

    .....
```
  
After changing the variables save the file and open the `index.html` file, in this file change the `{{url}}` to the address where your application is
running, e.g. `https://com.mendixcloud.myapp`, and save the file. The part where the url is used will now look something like:

```
... 
 
document.addEventListener("deviceready", function() {
    mxapp.initialize("https://com.mendixcloud.myapp", enableOffline, requirePin);
});

...
```
We are done replacing variables, now we only need to make sure we create an archive with these changes. This can be done by selecting all the files and
directories you extract, right click it, and choose the `Send to compressed folder` option. This will result in a new archive file, ready for Phonegap Build.

### 3.2 Build the Windows Phone App
After building the Phonegap Build archive we are ready to build the app. Just log in to [Phonegap Build](https://build.phonegap.com/) and upload the archive
we created in the previous section. This will trigger a build for Windows Phone, so relax and wait for the build to finish.

When the build is finished you can download the Windows Phone app by clicking the `xap` button. Now you can use this app this xap file to deploy it to 
the Windows store, or to test it on a device.

## 4 Related Content

[Do not enter anything here, this will be generated by Mendix]
