---
title: "Enable WKWebView for Hybrid App on iOS"
space: "Mendix 6 How-to's"
category: "Mobile"
tags: []
---

## 1 Introduction

The hybrid app on iOS is using a bare bones browser called a webview. On iOS there are two webviews 
available the webview the Safari browser is using under the hood, called WKWebView, and another
older webview called UIWebView is used by the hybrid app. The WKWebview is the latest and greatest 
webview with better performance, a better memory footprint and less browser bugs.

You can use this awesome webview in your hybrid app as well, and this how-to will tell you how to 
accomplish that.

## 2 Prerequisites

Before starting this how-to, make sure you have completed the following prerequisites:

* A Mendix App with mobile support and version 6.10 or higher running in the Mendix Cloud, either in a Free App or on a licensed cloud node.
* An account for Adobe PhoneGap Build. You can sign up for an account [here](https://build.phonegap.com/plans).

## 3 Building the Hybrid app package with WKWebview enabled

### 3.1 Download the Hybrid app package
In this assignment we will download the PhoneGap app package so we can change its configuration later.

Once you have deployed your app to the Mendix Cloud, you can visit the ‘Publish’ tab in the Development Portal. 
There, you can choose `Publish for Mobile App Stores`. In the next screen you get the option to `Do it yourself`. 
When you select this you can `Download PhoneGap Build Package`, which downloads a zip containing the Hybrid app package.
 
### 3.2 Change Hybrid app package configuration
In this step we will change the configuration so that on iOS we use the new and shiny WKWebView.

Extract the download archive so we can change the configuration file. Then open the file
`config.xml` in your favourite editor. We need to make two modifications to this file:

#### Change preference to use WKWebView
The following code: 

```
<feature name="CDVWKWebViewEngine">
    <param name="ios-package" value="CDVWKWebViewEngine" />
</feature>

<preference name="CordovaWebViewEngine" value="CDVWKWebViewEngine" />
```
should be added to the config.xml file and should be placed directly after the `phonegap-version` preference.

#### Adding an additional plugin 
The extra plugin can be added by by pasting the following code:

```
<gap:plugin name="cordova-plugin-wkwebview-engine-nextgen" source="npm" version="1.0.1" />
```
below the other `gap:plugin` tags.

You are now done configuring, you only need to make sure you create an archive with these changes.

1. Select all the files and directories you extracted.
2. Right click the selection and select `Send to compressed folder`. This will create a new archive file that is ready for PhoneGap Build.

### 3.2 Building the Hybrid App
After building the PhoneGap Build archive you are ready to build the app.
Log in to [Phonegap Build](https://build.phonegap.com/) and upload the archive you created in the previous section.

This will trigger a build for the Hybrid app, so sit back and relax while your app is being created. When the build is done
you can download the new and shiny iOS ipa file, where the awesome WKWebView is enabled! 

## 4 Related Content

[Do not enter anything here, this will be generated by Mendix]
